General Faculties Council  

Approved Open Session Minutes 

Monday, January 21, 2013 
L1-490, Edmonton Clinic Health Academy 
2:00 PM – 4:00 PM 
 

 
ATTENDEES: 
 
Voting Members: 
 
Amaral, J Nelson 
Andrews, Nathan 
Arbuckle, Kathryn 
Ashworth, Nigel 
Auger, Joanna 
Babiuk, Lorne 
Becker, Bart 
(Delegate) 
Belosevic, Mike 
Blackburn, Ed 
Bouchard, Alice 
Brown, Cary 
Brown, Norman 
Bryden, Philip 
Chen, Chris 
Clark, Brenda 
Clark, Phyllis 
Cormack, Lesley 
Coulthard, Roy 
Crone, Lyndon 
De Gara, Chris 
Eccles, Russell 
Ferguson-Pell, Martin 
Goble, Erika 
Gordon, Ann 
Gotell, Lise 
Harrington, Joanna 
Harris, John 
Hodgson, Cory 
Hokowhitu, Brendan 
Ives, Jack 
Jensen, Louise 
Joseph, Sam 
Kehrer, James 
Kelly, Brent 

 
Science 
Graduate Council of Students 
Acting Chief Librarian 
Medicine and Dentistry 
Sessional Staff 
Vice-President (Research) 
Vice-President (Facilities and Operations) 

GFC Appointee to the Board of Governors 
Faculté Saint-Jean 
Non-Academic Staff 
Rehabilitation Medicine 
Arts 
Dean, Law 
Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences 
Medicine and Dentistry 
Vice-President (Finance and Administration) 
Dean, Arts 
Graduate Student at-Large 
Engineering 
Medicine and Dentistry 
President (NASA) 
Acting Provost and Vice-President (Academic) 
Graduate Student at-Large 
Arts 
Arts 
Law 
Arts 
Science 
Dean, Native Studies 
Arts 
Nursing 
Arts 
Dean, Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences 
Students’ Union (SU) Appointee to the Board of Governors 

 
Kendal, Gerry 
Kennelly, John 
Kochikuzhyi, Jeffry 
Konkin, Jill 
Laing, Lory 
Lemelin, Pierre 
MacFarlane, Kelly 
McGetrick, Jennifer 
Meston, John 
Mildenberger, Adam 
Mills, Kelsey 
Milner, Rachel 
Molzahn, Anita 
Mummery, Kerry 
Nocente, Norma 
Osburn, Debra Pozega 
Outar, O’Neil 
Patterson, Ray 
Pu, Christopher 
Renke, Wayne 
Richards, Jeremy 
Rinaldi, Christina 
Robertson, Sean 
Rodgers, Wendy 
Samarasekera, Indira 
Schaeffer, Jonathan 
Shchepetkina, Alina 
Snart, Fern 
Sturdy, Christopher 
Sumar, Saadiq 
Tardif, Guillaume 
Tinic, Serra 
Willows, Noreen 
Wilson, Donna 
Woods, Adam 
Yamagishi, Colten 
Zhang, Hao 
Zielinski, Michal 
 
Presenters/Proposers: 
Ed Blackburn 
Mike Belosevic 
Garry Bodnar 
 
Phyllis Clark 
Martin Ferguson-Pell 

Kris Fowler 

Wade King 

General Faculties Council / 1/21/2013 
Page 2 

Vice-Provost and University Registrar 
Dean, Agricultural, Life and Environmental Sciences 
Science 
Medicine and Dentistry 
Interim Dean, School of Public Health 
Medicine and Dentistry 
Sessional Staff 
Graduate Student at-Large 
Graduate Student at-Large 
Medicine and Dentistry 
Arts 
Medicine and Dentistry 
Dean, Nursing 
Dean, Physical Education and Recreation 
Education 
Vice-President (University Relations) 
Vice-President (Advancement) 
Business 
NASA Appointee to the Board of Governors 
AASUA Appointee to the Board of Governors 
Science 
Education 
Native Studies 
Physical Education and Recreation 
President (Chair) 
Dean, Science 
Graduate Student at-Large 
Dean, Education 
Science 
Student Nominated by the Undergraduate Council of Students 
Arts 
Arts 
Agricultural, Life and Environmental Sciences 
President (AASUA) 
Arts 
Students’ Union President 
Engineering 
Graduate Student at-Large 
 
 
Chair, GFC Nominating Committee 
Academic Staff Representative on the Board of Governors 
Secretary to General Faculties Council and Coordinator, GFC Replenishment 

Committee 

Vice-President (Finance and Administration) 
Acting  Provost  and  Vice-President  (Academic)  and  Chair,  GFC  Executive 

Committee 

Rights 

Helping Individuals at Risk Coordinator, Office of Safe Disclosure and Human 

Safe  Disclosure  and  Human  Rights  Advisor,  Office  of  Safe  Disclosure  and 

General Faculties Council / 1/21/2013 
Page 3 

 

Human Rights 

Interim Dean, School of Public Health 
President and Chair, General Faculties Council 

 
Director of GFC Services and Secretary to GFC 
University Secretary 
Scribe 

Lory Laing 
Indira Samarasekera 
 
Staff: 
Garry Bodnar 
Marion Haggarty-France 
Andrea Patrick 
 
OPENING SESSION 
 
1.   Approval of the Agenda 
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
Motion:  Amaral/Kennelly 
 
THAT the General Faculties Council approve the Agenda. 

Approval of the Open Session Minutes of November 26, 2012 

 
2. 
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
Discussion: 
Mr Woods and Mr Sumar suggested minor amendments to the Minutes of November 26, 2012. 
 
Motion:  Cormack/Molzahn 
 
THAT the General Faculties Council approve the Minutes of November 26, 2012, as amended. 

 
3.  Comments from the President 
 
The Chair noted this was the 387th meeting of General Faculties Council (GFC).  President Samarasekera 
reported:   
 

  On the recent student mental health initiative that brings $3 million of Provincial Government funding 
to the University of Alberta to expand mental health services to students.  She expressed her thanks 
to all of the University staff whose leadership was instrumental to the creation of the program and 
noted that Dr Donna Cave, Director, University Health Centre, provided exceptional direction with 
regard  to  the  program’s  development.    Dr  Samarasekera  stated  that  she  was  excited  to  see  the 
program’s impact as it provides assistance to students. 

  On the Provincial Budget.  She stated that due to recent issues within the oil and gas industry, the 
Province  of  Alberta  is  ‘revenue  challenged’,  which  has  created  uncertainty  with  respect  to  the 
Provincial  Budget.    The  President  reported  that  her  team  continues  to  work  on  the  institutional 
budget  for  2013-2014  and  that  she  continues  to  meet  with  representatives  of  the  Provincial 
Government to emphasize how critical the 2% funding previously committed is to the University of 
Alberta. 

  On the Board of Governors’ upcoming strategic retreat, planned for April, 2013.  She reported that 

CARRIED 

CARRIED 

General Faculties Council / 1/21/2013 
Page 4 

she recently met with Mr Douglas Goss, Chair, Board of Governors, and was pleased with his vision 
of reviewing strategic planning for the University of Alberta.  She added that with all of the changes 
and current challenges within higher education, it is a good time for the Board of Governors to hold 
such a retreat.  She stated that Mr Goss will be meeting with Deans, students, staff, and other key 
stakeholders to obtain their feedback before the retreat and encouraged all members to contact him 
with any engaging ideas or issues they may have in relation to strategic planning/directions for the 
University of Alberta. 

  On  a  letter  from  undergraduate  student  members  of  GFC  regarding  student  involvement  at  GFC 
and GFC Standing Committee meetings.  She stated that she recently met with Acting Provost and 
Vice-President (Academic) Martin Ferguson-Pell, University Secretary Marion Haggarty-France, and 
Secretary to GFC Garry Bodnar regarding a plan to re-energize GFC.  She added that two of her 
ideas  include  changing  the  location  of  GFC  from  Room  L1-490  ECHA  and  examining  ways  that 
members’ time can be best utilized at GFC meetings, including reviewing what items come before 
GFC for its consideration and discussion.  Dr Samarasekera stated these ideas will be discussed 
with members of the GFC Executive Committee.  She pledged that a written response to the letter 
from these students would be provided in due course. 

  On her ‘State of the University’ address.  She noted that her address will take place on February 28, 
2013,  at  12:30  p.m.,  in  Room  L1-490,  ECHA.    She  remarked  that  she  will  address  a  number  of 
issues including invigorating GFC and her remaining goals before her term as President concludes. 

 
ACTION ITEMS 
 
4.  New Members of GFC 
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
Presenter: Indira Samarasekera, President and Chair, GFC 
 
Discussion:  There was no discussion. 
 
Motion:  Molzahn/Sumar 
 
TO APPOINT/REAPPOINT 
 
The following  non-academic  staff member  elected  by  the  Non-Academic  Staff  Association  (NASA)  for  a 
term concurrent with his term of appointment on the Board of Governors (November 28, 2012 to November 
27, 2015):  
 

Christopher Pu                  Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry 

 

 

Proposal for Non-Departmentalized Status for the University of Alberta’s School of Public Health 

 
5. 
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
Presenter:  Lory Laing, Interim Dean, School of Public Health 
 
Discussion:   
Dr Laing introduced her proposal by explaining that the School of Public Health is the newest Faculty on 

CARRIED 

General Faculties Council / 1/21/2013 
Page 5 

CARRIED 

 

In  November,  2012, 

transparent  and  open. 

 
campus,  created  from  the  combination  of  the  Department  of  Public  Health  Sciences  and  the  Centre  for 
Health Promotions Studies. It has been in existence since 2006.  The School was recently accredited as 
the first  public  health  school  in  Canada.    In  2012,  the  School  underwent  an  academic  unit  review,  and, 
based on that review, it was recommended at that time that the School become non-departmentalized.  Dr 
Laing  noted that the  School  is  highly  collaborative  and  that the  existing  separation  of the two  units  was 
stifling research and collaboration on its academic programming and other educative functions. 
 
The  Interim  Dean  continued  by  explaining  that  she  had  struck  a  Task  Force  in  the  Summer  of  2012  to 
review this issue further, and this group consulted widely across all members of the School, with a goal to 
formulate  a  plan.    This  process  included  focus groups,  interviews,  online  participation,  and  a  Town  Hall 
meeting.  As information was gathered, it was shared across the School’s community so that the process 
would  be 
the  Task  Force  recommended  non-
departmentalization.    She  added  that  the  proposal  was  presented  at  a  School  of  Public  Health  Council 
meeting in late November, 2012 and, subsequently, by means of an electronic vote in which all Council 
members were participant, was passed by a clear majority.  She noted that students as well as alumni are 
supportive of the proposal. 
 
Dr Samarasekera stated that she supported this endeavor and congratulated the School of Public Health 
on their recent accreditation as well as their many successes. 
 
There was no further discussion. 
 
Motion:  Laing/Belosevic 
 
THAT  General  Faculties  Council  recommend  to  the  Board  of  Governors  the  proposal  for  a  non-
departmentalized  structure  for  the  University  of  Alberta’s  School  of  Public  Health,  as  submitted  by  the 
Interim Dean of the School of Public Health (on behalf of the School) and as set forth in Attachment 1, to 
take effect upon final approval.      

 
DISCUSSION ITEMS 
 
6.  Graduate Studies at the University of Alberta 
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
Presenter:  Martin  Ferguson-Pell,  Acting  Provost  and  Vice-President  (Academic)  and  Acting  Chair,  GFC 
Executive Committee 
 
Discussion: 
Acting  Provost  and  Vice-President  (Academic)  Ferguson-Pell  clarified  that  this  ongoing  project  relates 
more  to  the  University’s  graduate  education  in  a  broader  sense  rather  than  a  discussion  specifically 
centred on the Faculty of Graduate Studies and Research.  He added that the goal of the review was to 
improve  educational  experiences  for  all  graduate  students  and,  as  a  result,  should  not  be  limited  to  a 
singular focus.  
 
He explained that the University of Toronto and the University of Waterloo assisted in relation to this project 
and  that,  following  visits  to  each  institution,  it  was  clear  that  their  respective  electronic  management  of 
graduate education administration and commitment to student funding set them apart as leaders in these 
areas.    He  added  that  the  initial  draft  report  with  regard  to  this  project,  authored  by  Dr  Catherine 

General Faculties Council / 1/21/2013 
Page 6 

 
Swindlehurst, Special Advisor to the Provost and Vice-President (Academic), was submitted immediately 
before  the  University’s  recent  holiday  closure  and,  upon  his  review,  warranted  further  fine-tuning.    Dr 
Ferguson-Pell  announced  that  the  final  report  will  be  accompanied  by  a  proposed  action  plan  outlining 
recommendations from Administration on how to move forward.  He commented that this proposed action 
plan was meant to foster additional discussion and collaboration across the University’s campuses on this 
issue.  He added that it would be released in advance of the next GFC meeting scheduled for March 18, 
2013.  
 
Members expressed several comments and concerns in relation to this item, including, but not limited to:  
how  major  differences,  notably  in  relation  to  teaching  assistantships  and  recruitment,  between  the 
University  of  Toronto,  the  University  of  Waterloo,  and  the  University  of  Alberta  might  preclude  effective 
modelling for proposed changes within graduate studies at the University of Alberta; whether the proposed 
action plan would include a clear path for actions arising; if an amended timeline for action could be made 
available;  if  there  would  be  an  opportunity  outside  of  the  next  GFC  meeting  to  discuss  the  report  and 
proposed action plan; if the Faculty of Graduate Studies and Research Council would have an opportunity 
to  review  the  report  and  proposed  action  plan;  and  if  there  has  been  response  from  Administration 
regarding  concerns  brought  forward  by  the  Graduate  Students’  Association  (GSA),  alleging  lack  of 
consultation.  The Acting Provost and Vice-President (Academic) responded, in turn, to each of the points 
raised by members. 
 
Dr Samarasekera thanked members for their continued attention to this matter and added that, as graduate 
education  continues  to  be  a  large  and  important  item  for  review,  she  and  the  Acting  Provost  and  Vice-
President (Academic) will continue to provide updates on the issue.   
 
7. 
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
Presenters:  Indira  Samarasekera,  President  and  Chair,  GFC,  and  Martin  Ferguson-Pell,  Acting  Provost 
and Vice-President (Academic) and Acting Chair, GFC Executive Committee 
 
Discussion: 
Dr Samarasekera explained that as a way to be proactive about the emerging global trend within higher 
education  towards  incorporating  online  learning  initiatives  into  traditional  teaching  methods,  she  had 
requested  Dr  Jonathan  Schaeffer,  in  his  previous  role  as  Vice-Provost  and  Associate  Vice-President 
(Information Technology), and Ms Jennifer Chesney, Associate Vice-President (University Digital Strategy), 
form a committee to discuss how the University of Alberta could initially respond to the idea.  She explained 
that the Visioning Committee was therefore struck; the issues were discussed and investigated thoroughly; 
and  the  Committee  subsequently  produced  and  provided  a  report  to  the  President,  which  she  is  now 
sharing with the wider University community. 
 
At 
Recommendations” contained within the Report and provided brief commentary on the collective: 
 
1.    Aspire  to  offer  the  highest  quality  digital  learning  environment  within  our  comprehensive  learning 
offerings to enhance in-class experience and create a strong online learning presence. 
2.    Create  a  central  collaborative  research  and teaching  service  unit  responsible  for  defining,  operating, 
facilitating, and promoting the University of Alberta’s advanced digital learning environment. 
3.  Partner with other universities and/or digital learning organizations to offer common courses, innovative 
certificates, and unique learning opportunities. 

invitation,  Dr  Ferguson-Pell  highlighted 

The Visioning Committee Report 

the  President’s 

for  members 

the 

“Summary  of 

General Faculties Council / 1/21/2013 
Page 7 

 
4.  Consolidate existing teaching and learning resources. 
5.  Commit to a long-term funding strategy. 
6.  Broaden the integration of appropriate technologies in the classroom to support enhanced teaching and 
learning. 
7.  Offer certain online courses for free. 
8.  Create live learning events. 
9.  Encourage  entrepreneurialism  both  in  the  learning  environment  and  in  research  that  has  commercial 
viability. 
 
Members expressed several questions and comments in relation to Report, including, but not limited to:  
what evidence exists for Recommendation 6 in relation to the pedagogical value of blended courses; how 
Recommendation 2 might fiscally impact the University of Alberta at a time of severe budget challenges; 
that  the  expense  of  the  initiative  might  hinder  its  launch;  that  an  alternative  approach  could  be  that  the 
University of Alberta not participate in the digitization of learning initiatives and could instead continue to 
focus on personalized, one-on-one teaching methods; identification of the challenges in establishing digital 
learning  strategies  on  campus;  what  the  next  steps  are  in  regards  to  this  project;  what  the  governance 
route  would  be  for  approving  related  initiatives;  that  the  Report  and  discussion  around  the  Report  have 
been  helpful  to  those  professors  and  instructors  on  campus  already  augmenting  traditional  teaching 
methods  with  online  learning  initiatives;  and  how  the  incorporation  of  MOOCs  (Massive  Open  Online 
Courses) and other online initiatives might impact student and course fees. 
 
Dr Samarasekera provided commentary on the points raised by members and, in turn, thanked them for 
their participation in the discussion.  She added that the findings contained with this report would continue 
to be discussed within the academy and, potentially, at future meetings of GFC. 
 
8.  Helping Individuals at Risk and Safe Disclosure and Human Rights Activity Report 2011-2012 
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
Presenters:  Phyllis  Clark,  Vice-President (Finance  and  Administration), Wade  King,  Safe  Disclosure  and 
Human Rights Advisor, Office of Safe Disclosure and Human Rights, and Kris Fowler, Helping Individuals 
at Risk Coordinator, Office of Safe Disclosure and Human Rights 
 
Discussion: 
Vice-President  (Finance  and  Administration)  Clark  introduced  this  item  by  stating  the  contents  of  the 
Helping Individuals at Risk and Safe Disclosure and Human Rights Activity Report 2011-2012 emphasize 
the crucial role of the Office of Safe Disclosure and Human Rights on campus. 
 
Mr  King  highlighted  several  keys  areas  from  the  Office  of  Safe  Disclosure  and  Human  Rights  Report, 
including: 
 
-  There were 98 cases of disclosure during the reporting period. 
-  The  Office  of  Safe  Disclosure  and  Human  Rights  focused  on  cross-institutional  training  and 
educational  efforts  including  the  “Delete  Bullying”  course  and  worked  to  increase  awareness 
throughout the University of the policies and procedures overseen and services provided by this unit. 

-  The Office of Safe Disclosure and Human Rights has hired a Communication Coordinator. 

  

Ms Kris Fowler highlighted several key areas from the Helping Individuals at Risk Report, including: 
 
-  There were 214 reports about 153 perceived ‘Individuals at Risk’ during the reporting period, reflecting 

General Faculties Council / 1/21/2013 
Page 8 

 

members. 

a 18% increase in reports and 33% increase in the number of perceived ‘Individuals at Risk’ from the 
previous year.  The majority of cases were undergraduate students. 

-  The focus will be to encourage reporting for anyone perceived to be “at risk,” including staff and faculty 

-  Reports seem to come in “clusters” over the year. 
-  Ms  Fowler’s  position  has  become  full-time,  and  this  will  encourage  a  strong  focus  on  increasing 

awareness on the University’s campuses. 

 
Members expressed several comments and questions in relation to these reports, including, but not limited 
to:  whether or not the increase in reports from and about undergraduate students represents a trend; and 
whether or not there is a break-down of data between undergraduate versus graduate students. 
 
Dr Samarasekera thanked Mr King and Ms Fowler for their hard work and dedication. 
 
9.  Question Period  
 
Dr Samarasekera noted that there have been recent discussions regarding GFC and its procedures.  She 
clarified  that  debate  is  not  the  intended  purpose  of  ‘Question  Period’;  yet,  she  stated  that  there  are 
important issues that do warrant debate and that she, in consultation with others, will be determined where 
and how this can occur.  She stated that ‘Question Period’ is about sharing information between individuals 
on  campus.    She  added  that  she  is  happy  to  address  all  questions,  but  some  answers  require  time  to 
prepare and may be delivered at a later date as a result. In addition, the President noted that she reserved 
the  right  to  interrupt  members  delivering  lengthy  prepared  statements  or  to  recommend  that  a  reply  in 
writing be provided at another date, if necessary.   
 
9.1Q/9.1R Question from GFC Member Mr Saadiq Sumar (Students’ Union Vice-President (Student Life)) 
Regarding  Changes  at Lister  Residences  and  Response from  Vice-Provost  and  Dean  of  Students  Frank 
Robinson to Question Raised by Mr Sumar 
9.2Q/9.2R    Question  from  GFC  Member  Mr  Dustin  Chelen  (Students’  Union  Vice-President  (Academic)) 
Regarding  Changes  at Lister  Residences  and  Response from  Vice-Provost  and  Dean  of  Students  Frank 
Robinson to Question Raised by Mr Chelen 
  
Mr  Sumar  thanked  the  Chair  for  the  response  before  members  and  stated  that  he  will  direct  a  question 
towards Vice-Provost and Dean of Students Frank Robinson for the next GFC meeting (as Dr Robinson 
was absent from the current meeting).  Dr Samarasekera requested that he submit the question in writing 
before the next meeting of Council. 
 
Mr Woods noted that he had submitted a written question for this meeting of GFC but acknowledged that, 
having done so so shortly before the meeting, he had not expected a written response at this time. The 
Chair invited him to state his question, which he did by noting that, recently, there was an incident in which 
Residence  Services  lodged  a  complaint  to  University  of  Alberta  Protective  Services  regarding  a  student 
who, in his view, had respectfully spoken out about the eviction of a fellow student. He commented that he 
believed this letter was an attempt by a student to state their opinion regarding the treatment of a peer by 
the  University  and  entirely  relates  to  rules  and  regulations  overseen  by  General  Faculties  Council, 
specifically  the  Residence  Code.    Despite  this  student’s  attempt  to  contribute  to  the  collegiality  of  the 
institution,  University  staff  resorted  to  what  some  may  call  intimidation  tactics  with  the  use  of  its  own 
security.  Mr Woods asked why University staff responded to student concerns through such means? 
 
Dr Samarasekera replied that she will review the matter and that the Administration will provide a written 
reply.  She added that students should be free to voice their opinions and that a break-down in collegiality 

General Faculties Council / 1/21/2013 
Page 9 

 
should be avoided. 
 
Mr  Yamagishi  stated  that  it  is  sometimes  difficult  for  students  to  address  Council  in  ‘Question  Period’ 
without  reading  from  prepared  materials,  particularly  given  the  presence  of  members  of  the  Senior 
Administration (eg, Deans).  He added that it is easier for students to read a prepared question in order to 
properly  present  their  concerns.    Dr  Samarasekera  replied  that  she  welcomes  questions,  but  that 
sometimes  prepared  statements  detract  from  the  intention  of  ‘Question  Period’,  which  is  to  answer 
questions across the academy, not to state platforms of opinion.  She added that students can read from 
prepared  papers  if  they  are  most  comfortable  doing  so  but,  if  it  is  too  lengthy  or  contains  a  platform  of 
opinion, she may choose to interrupt to ask that the questioner provide their question in a more concise 
manner. 
 
Mr  Coulthard  stated  that  he  has  noticed  a  considerable  number  of  professors  from  MacEwan  University 
were being featured within local media as resident experts on a range of issues and asked why this might 
be  occurring  with  such  frequency.    In  response,  Vice-President  (University  Relations)  Pozega  Osburn 
stated she would review this matter and provide a response for the next meeting of GFC. 
 
INFORMATION REPORTS 
 
10.  GFC Executive Committee Minutes of December 3, 2012 
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
Discussion: 
There was no discussion. 
 
11.  Reports of the Board of Governors of December 14, 2012 
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
Discussion: 
There was no discussion. 
 
12.  E-Mail Report of the GFC Nominating Committee (January 7, 2013) 
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
Discussion: 
Dr  Blackburn  reminded  members  that  it  is  replenishment  time  again  for  GFC  standing  committees  and 
other bodies to which GFC elects individuals and invited members to submit names for participation.  He 
noted that the deadline for applications from interested students is March 4, 2013 and, for interested staff, 
the deadline is set for March 28, 2013.  He instructed members to reference the University Governance 
website (www.governance.ualberta.ca) for more information. 
 
13.  E-Mail Report of the GFC Replenishment Committee  
 
There was no report to date. 
 
14. 
 
There were no items to date. 

Information Items Forwarded to GFC Members Between Meetings 
 

 

 

 

 

General Faculties Council / 1/21/2013 
Page 10 

 
 
15.  Reports 
 

 

  Annual Report to General Faculties Council (GFC) from the Appeals Coordinator (July 1, 2011 to 

  University  of  Alberta  Museums  Annual  Report to  General  Faculties  Council  (GFC) for  the  Period 

June 30, 2012) 

July 1, 2011 – June 30, 2012  

  Office of Student Judicial Affairs (OSJA) 2011/12 Annual Report and Statistics 

 
Discussion: 
There was no discussion. 
 
CLOSING SESSION 
 
16.  Adjournment 
 
The Chair adjourned the meeting at 3:50 pm. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
R:\GO05 General Faculties Council - Committees\GEN\12-13\JA-21\Minutes\Final-Minutes.Docx