General Faculties Council  

Approved Open Session Minutes 

Thursday, March 14, 2013 
L1-490, Edmonton Clinic Health Academy 
2:00 PM – 4:00 PM 
 

 

 

 
ATTENDEES: 
 
Voting Members: 
 
Adamski, Nicholas 
Amaral, J. Nelson 
Andrews, Nathan 
Arbuckle, Kathryn 
Belosevic, Mike 
Berger, Allen 
Blackburn, Ed 
Bozso, Sabin 
Brown, Cary 
Brown, Norman 
Bryden, Philip 
Campbell, Katy 
Chelen, Dustin 
Chen, Chris 
Clark, Brenda 
Clark, Phyllis 
Cormack, Lesley 
Coulthard, Roy 
Crone, Lyndon 
Danko, Maggie 
DeGara, Chris 
Deyholos, Michael 
Ferguson-Pell, Martin 
Goble, Erika 
Gotell, Lise 
Harrington, Joanna 
Harris, John 
Haeubl, Gerald 
Hickey, Don 
Hokowhitu, Brendan 
Hong, Jason 
Ingles, Ernie 

Ives, Jack 
Jensen, Louise 

 
Engineering 
Science 
Grad Council of Students 
Acting Chief Librarian 
GFC Appointee to the Board of Governors 
Dean, Augustana Faculty and Executive Officer of Augustana Campus 
Faculté Saint-Jean 
Medicine and Dentistry 
Rehabilitation Medicine 
Arts 
Dean, Law 
Dean, Extension 
Student Nominated by the Undergraduate Council of Students 
Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences 
Medicine and Dentistry 
Vice-President (Finance and Administration) 
Dean, Arts 
Graduate Student at-Large 
Engineering 
Nursing 
Medicine and Dentistry 
Science 
Acting Provost and Vice-President (Academic) 
Graduate Student at-Large 
Arts 
Law 
Arts 
Business 
Vice-President (Facilities and Operations) 
Dean, Native Studies 
Education 
Vice-Provost  (Learning  Services)  and  Interim  Director,  Library  and  Information 
Studies 
Arts 
Nursing 

General Faculties Council / 3/14/2013 
Page 2 

Arts 
Arts 
Dean, Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences 
Students’ Union (SU) Appointee to the Board of Governors 
Vice-Provost and University Registrar 
Dean, Agricultural, Life and Environmental Sciences 
Library Academic Staff 
Medicine and Dentistry 
Graduate Student at-Large 
Education 
Interim Dean, Public Health 
Science 
Medicine and Dentistry 
Medicine and Dentistry 
Dean, Science 

Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences 
Graduate Student at-Large 
Graduate Student at-Large 
Arts 
Medicine and Dentistry 
Dean, Nursing 
Dean, Physical Education & Recreation 
Graduate Student at-Large 
Education 
Graduate Student at-Large 
Vice-President (University Relations) 
Vice-President (Advancement) 

 
Joseph, Sam 
Kabata, Kaori 
Kehrer, James 
Kelly, Brent 
Kendal, Gerry 
Kennelly, John 
Koch, Katherine 
Konkin, Jill 
Kristensen, Todd 
Kuryliw, Sarjenka 
Laing, Lory 
Lee, Matt 
Lemelin, Pierre 
Lemire, Bernard 
Leskiw, Brenda 
(Delegate) 
Loebenberg, Raimar 
McGetrick, Jennifer 
Meston, John 
Mills, Kelsey 
Milner, Rachel 
Molzahn, Anita 
Mummery, Kerry 
Nilson, Anna 
Nocente, Norma 
Odoom, Isaac 
Osburn, Debra Pozega 
Outar, O’Neil 
Porteous, Ken (Delegate)  Dean, Engineering 
Pu, Christopher 
Renke, Wayne 
Richards, Jeremy 
Robertson, Sean 
Robinson, Frank 
Rodgers, Wendy 
Samarasekera, Indira 
Saunders, Duncan 
Shirvani, Mazi 
Shores, Sandra 
Steier, Lloyd (Delegate) 
Sumar, Saadiq 
Swanson, Ruby 
Turpin, Karen Vera Lyn 
Van der Baan, Mirko 
Whelton, Bill 
Williamson, Deanna 
Willows, Noreen 
Wilson, Donna 
Woods, Adam 
Yamagishi, Colten 

NASA Appointee to the Board of Governors 
AASUA Appointee to the Board of Governors 
Science 
Native Studies 
Vice-Provost and Dean of Students 
Physical Education and Recreation 
President (Chair) 
Public Health 
Vice-Provost and Dean, Graduate Studies and Research 
Library Academic Staff 
Interim Dean, Business  
Student Nominated by the Undergraduate Council of Students 
APO 
Graduate Student at-Large 
Science 
Education 
Agricultural, Life and Environmental Sciences 
Agricultural, Life and Environmental Sciences 
President of AASUA 
Arts 
Students’ Union President 

 
Zhang, Hao 
Zhou, Mary 
Zielinski, Michal 
 
Presenters/Proposers: 
Ed Blackburn 
Mike Belosevic 
Garry Bodnar 
 
Bill Connor 

Martin Ferguson-Pell 

General Faculties Council / 3/14/2013 
Page 3 

Engineering 
Agricultural, Life and Environmental Sciences 
Graduate Student at-Large 
 
 
Chair, GFC Nominating Committee 
Academic Staff Representative on the Board of Governors 
Secretary to General Faculties Council and Coordinator, GFC Replenishment 

Vice-Provost (Academic Programs and Instruction) and Chair, GFC Academic 

Committee 

Standards Committee 

Executive Committee 

Acting  Provost  and  Vice-President  (Academic)  and  Acting  Chair,  GFC 

Associate Registrar (Enrolment Services), Office of the Registrar 
President and Chair, General Faculties Council 
Vice-Provost and Dean, Faculty of Graduate Studies and Research 
Special Advisor to the Provost and Vice-President (Academic) 
Past-President, Students’ Union 
President, Students’ Union 

 
Director of GFC Services and Secretary to GFC 
University Secretary 
Scribe 

Ada Ness 
Indira Samarasekera 
Mazi Shirvani 
Catherine Swindlehurst 
Rory Tighe 
Colten Yamagishi 
 
Staff: 
Garry Bodnar 
Marion Haggarty-France 
Andrea Patrick 
 
OPENING SESSION 
 
1.   Approval of the Agenda 
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
A member pointed out a minor typographical error on the Agenda within Item 2. 
 
Motion: Amaral/Shirvani 
 
THAT the General Faculties Council approve the Agenda, as amended. 

Approval of the Open Session Minutes of January 21, 2013 

 
2. 
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
Motion:  Amaral/Molzahn 
 
THAT the General Faculties Council approve the Minutes of January 21, 2013. 

 
3.  Comments from the President 
 
There were no documents. 

CARRIED 

CARRIED 

General Faculties Council / 3/14/2013 
Page 4 

 
President and Chair, Dr Indira Samarasekera, welcomed all in attendance to the 388th meeting of General 
Faculties Council (GFC) and reported: 
 
-  On the transition of incoming and outgoing Students’ Union members.  She warmly bid farewell to the 
Students’  Union  executive  members  leaving  office  and  welcomed  new  members,  most  notably 
Students’ Union President-Elect Petros Kusmu, to General Faculties Council (GFC). 

 
-  On the Provincial Budget.  She reported that the recently-unveiled Provincial Budget, containing the 
deepest cuts to Alberta’s post-secondary sector in over a decade, was unexpected.  She added that, 
subsequently, the University has been granted an extension to finalize its 2013-2014 budget and that, 
in  addition,  the  2013  Comprehensive  Institutional  Plan  (CIP)  would  need  to  be  revised  accordingly.  
She stated that the Change@UAlberta.ca website will be updated regularly to keep students, faculty, 
and staff apprised of developments regarding the impact of the Provincial Budget and the University’s 
plans to move forward. 

 
Dr Samarasekera invited comments and questions in relation to the Provincial Budget, and members and 
attendees expressed several, including, but not limited to:  how the University of Alberta revised budget will 
be determined; whether increases to Mandatory Non-Instructional Fees (MNIFs)  were being considered; 
clarification  about  the  “Letter  of  Expectation”  from  the  Ministry  of  Enterprise  and  Advanced  Education 
(EAE); whether classes with low enrolment would be cancelled; and whether the President would be joining 
the post-secondary education spending cuts protest at the Alberta Legislature on Friday, March 15, 2013. 
 
ACTION ITEMS 
4.  New Members of GFC 
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
Presenter: Indira Samarasekera, President and Chair, GFC 
 
Motion I:  Yamagishi/Cormack 
 
MOTION I: TO APPOINT/REAPPOINT  [This motion may be proposed only by statutory members of GFC 
– VPs, Deans, statutory students or elected faculty members]:   
 
The following undergraduate student representatives to serve on GFC for terms beginning immediately and 
ending April 30, 2013: 
 

 
Jason Davidson 

Mary Zhou 

Samuel Gagnon 
Sabin Bozso 

Faculty of Agricultural, Life and 
Environmental Sciences 
Faculty of Agricultural, Life and 
Environmental Sciences 
Campus Saint-Jean 
Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry 

The  following  undergraduate  student  members  elected  by  the  Students’  Union  (SU)  to  the  Board  of 
Governors and appointed to GFC for terms that are concurrent with their terms on the Board (May 1, 2013 
to April 30, 2014): 
 
 
 
 

Petros Kusmu 
Brent Kelly 

President, SU 
SU Appointee 

 

 

General Faculties Council / 3/14/2013 
Page 5 

Brent Epperson 

            President, GSA                                                            

 
Colin More 

Vice-President (Academic), GSA                                                                   

 Lisa M Collins 

Vice-Provost and University Registrar 

 
The following graduate student member elected by the Graduate Students’ Association (GSA) to the Board 
of Governors and appointed to GFC for a term that is concurrent with his term on the Board (May 1, 2013 
to April 30, 2014): 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                          CARRIED 
 
Motion II:  Swanson/Kennelly 
 
The following ex officio member to serve on GFC for a term beginning July 1, 2013 and extending for the 
duration of her appointment: 
 
 
 
The following statutory faculty members who have been elected or re-elected by their Faculty to serve on 
GFC for terms beginning immediately and ending June 30, 2013: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following statutory undergraduate student members nominated by the Students’ Union (SU) to serve 
on GFC for terms beginning May 1, 2013 and ending April 30, 2014: 
 
 
 
 
The following statutory graduate student member nominated by the Graduate Students’ Association (GSA) 
to serve on GFC for a term beginning May 1, 2013 and ending April 30, 2014: 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                          CARRIED 
 
5.  Course  Feedback  Prior  to Withdrawal  Deadlines  –  Proposed  Changes  to  Section  23.4  (Evaluation 

Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry 
Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry 
Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry 
 Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry 

Vice-President (Academic), SU 
Vice-President (Student Life), SU 

Tarek El-Bialy 
Ron McElhaney 
Jutta Preksaitis 
Amy Tse 

 
Dustin Chelen 
William Lau 

Procedures and Grading System) of the University Calendar 

 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
Presenters:    Bill  Connor,  Vice-Provost  (Academic  Programs  and  Instruction)  and  Chair,  GFC  Academic 
Standards Committee; Ada Ness, Associate Registrar (Enrolment Services), Office of the Registrar 
 
Purpose  of  the  Proposal:    To  work  to  ensure  students  receive  feedback  in  their  courses  prior  to  term 
withdrawal deadlines. 
 
Discussion: 
Vice-Provost  (Academic  Programs  and  Instruction)  Bill  Connor  briefed  members  on  the  history  of  the 
proposal,  noting  that  it  originated  from  a  discussion  with  students  regarding  their  requests  for  individual 
course  feedback  before  term  withdrawal  deadlines;  he  noted  that  the  proposal  before  members  reflects 
existing UAPPOL policy on assessment and grading that speaks to the provision of  such feedback.  He 

General Faculties Council / 3/14/2013 
Page 6 

Provincial Budget 

 
stated  that  this  proposal  had  been  discussed  and  recommended  forward  by  the  appropriate  standing 
committees of GFC and had been well supported throughout the process. 
 
During the ensuing discussion, members expressed several comments and questions, including, but not 
limited  to:  clarification  with  regard  to  the  meaning  of  the  word  “substantive”  in  the  proposed  wording; 
whether a percentage regarding the amount of feedback to students should be added within the proposal; 
that  providing feedback in  large  classes  would  be  difficult;  that  instructors/professors  may feel  forced  to 
provide  substantive  feedback  early  in  the  course;  that  the  Association  of  Academic  Staff  –  University  of 
Alberta (AASUA) had not been consulted on the proposal; that the proposal represent a cultural change 
which will allow students to obtain knowledge of their performance earlier in their courses; that students 
have a right to important, meaningful, and considerable feedback earlier, rather than later, into a course; 
and possible use of the word “appropriate” instead of “substantive.” 
 
Motion: Rodgers/Chelen 
 
THAT General Faculties Council approve the proposed changes to Section 23.4 (Evaluation Procedures 
and Grading System) of the University Calendar, as submitted by the Office of the Registrar in cooperation 
with  the  Office  of  the  Provost  and  Vice-President  (Academic)  and  as  set  forth  in  Attachment  1,  to  be 
effective 2013-2014 (Fall Term) and for publication in the 2014-2015 University Calendar.                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                          CARRIED 
 
DISCUSSION ITEMS 
 
6. 
 
There were no documents. 
 
Presenter: Indira Samarasekera, President and Chair, GFC 
 
Discussion: 
Further  to  the  information  provided  in  her  opening  comments,  Dr  Samarasekera  invited  questions  from 
members and attendees regarding the Provincial Budget. 
 
Members  expressed  comments  and  questions  in  relation  to  this  item,  including,  but  not  limited  to:    the 
possibility  of  cuts  by  the  Faculty  of  Arts  to  Community  Service-Learning  (CSL)  as  a  result  of  reduced 
funding  from  the  Provincial  Government;  clarity  from  the  Dean  of  the  Faculty  of  Arts  that  no  cuts  were 
being  contemplated  to  the  Faculty’s  CSL  initiatives;  and  the  tone  of  University-wide  and  leadership 
responses to the Provincial Budget. 
 
7.  Graduate Education at the University of Alberta 
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
Presenters:  Martin  Ferguson-Pell,  Acting  Provost  and  Vice-President  (Academic);  Mazi  Shirvani,  Vice-
Provost and Dean, Faculty of Graduate Studies and Research; Catherine Swindlehurst, Special Advisor to 
the Provost and Vice-President (Academic) 
 
Discussion: 
Acting Provost and Vice-President (Academic) Martin Ferguson-Pell outlined the contents of the so-called 
‘Swindlehurst Report’ to members, as well as the attached Action Plan, explaining that it was drafted by Dr 

General Faculties Council / 3/14/2013 
Page 7 

 
Swindlehurst  at  the  request  of  the  Office  of  the  Provost  and  Vice-President  (Academic)  in  late  2012 
following  extensive  consultation  across  the  University  of  Alberta  on  the  subject  of  improving  graduate 
education at the University of Alberta.   
 
Dr  Swindlehurst  reported  to  members  that,  during  her  consultations,  she  met  with  approximately  200 
people  which  included  representatives  of  18  Faculties  across  the  campuses  of  the  University,  and  she 
stated that participants were engaged and informative throughout the process.  She clarified that the scope 
of  her focus  during  consultation  included  administration,  recruitment, quality  measures,  and  professional 
development, all in relation to graduate education at this university. 
 
Dr  Ferguson-Pell  added  that  two  site  visits  had  been  conducted  by  a  small  team from  the  University  of 
Alberta  to  the  University  of  Toronto  and  to  Waterloo  University  in  order  to  observe  their  successful 
graduate education programs and corresponding procedures and practices, with specific attention paid to 
their funding models and information technology (IT)/administration systems. 
 
Dr Shirvani described the contents of the accompanying ‘Action Plan’ to members, explaining that quality 
measures are under development and outlining the concepts underlying the proposed Graduate Strategic 
Management Plan (GSMP). 
 
Dr Ferguson-Pell noted that areas for further improvement include institutional IT/administration systems 
related to graduate admission and programming and designated funding, adding that Principal Investigator-
driven grants also play a factor in providing quality graduate education and that areas of excellence must 
continue  to  be  supported  and  developed  as  well  as  those  programs  that,  for  a  variety  of  reasons,  are 
struggling.  
 
During  the  ensuing  discussion,  members  expressed  several  questions  and  comments  in  relation  to  this 
item, including, but not limited to:  that the Report is unclear and difficult to read; that the role of the Faculty 
of Graduate Studies and Research was not clarified within the Report; that the GSMPs will be difficult to 
complete  and  will  add  a  significant  workload  to  Faculties;  that  clarification  is  required  about  how  the 
gathered data within the GSMPs will be used; clarification about how the Provincial Budget will affect the 
Action Plan; and that the uniqueness of each Faculty prevents universal research funding thresholds.  
 
Dr  Ferguson-Pell  thanked  members  for  their  feedback  and  stated  that  these  matters  will  continue  to  be 
discussed. 
 
8. 

Fall Term Reading Week (Green and Gold Week) – Proposed Changes to the UAPPOL Academic 
Schedule Procedure from the Students’ Union (SU) 

 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
Presenters:  Colten  Yamagishi,  President,  University  of  Alberta  Students’  Union;  Rory  Tighe,  Past-
President, University of Alberta Students’ Union 
 
Discussion: 
Students’  Union  (SU)  President  Colten  Yamagishi  described  the  Fall  Term  Reading  Week  proposal  to 
members, adding that it has taken three years to plan and has been the platform for three consecutive SU 
Presidents.  He stated that the consultation process was vast and included as many people as possible.  
He  explained  that  most  concerns  have  been  addressed  within  the  current  proposal.    He  outlined  the 
schedule associated with this proposed Reading Week, as contained in the proposal before members.    
 

General Faculties Council / 3/14/2013 
Page 8 

 
SU Past-President Rory Tighe outlined some of the ongoing concerns that continue to circulate including:  
the impact of a Fall Term Reading Week on the University’s Orientation; the timing of the proposed break; 
and  the  length  of  the  break.    He  explained  that  students  have  considered  all  of  these  issues  and  that, 
despite them, Students’ Council voted unanimously in favour of this proposal.  Mr Yamagishi added there is 
strong student support for the proposed timing of the break as well as the length of time, noting that a full 
week break in November allows a period of ‘recharging’ for students at a time when student counselling 
numbers increase and midterm exams are a major cause of anxiety.  Mr Tighe commented that the main 
impetus  of  the  proposal  is  the  preservation  of  student  mental  health;  he  added  that  similar  breaks  are 
offered at various other Canadian institutions. 
 
Dr Ferguson-Pell explained that, as per his “Approver” status within the Academic Schedule Procedure in 
the  University  of  Alberta  Policy  and  Procedures  On-Line  (UAPPOL),  his  role  is  to  gather  information  to 
determine whether or not he will approve the changes to the Academic Schedule Procedure, as set out in 
the proposal, and invited members to provide commentary on this proposed initiative. 
 
During the ensuing discussion, members expressed comments and questions in relation to this proposal, 
including, but not limited to: an expression of gratitude directed to the SU for revising the proposal so that it 
does not impact accreditation within some Faculties; concerns with the full week model; concerns that the 
proposal is not evidence based; individual expressions of strong support for the full week break; concerns 
that  the  proposed  break  in  November  is  too  late  in  the  term  to  have  the  intended  impact  for  students; 
concerns  that  a  break  situated,  instead,  in  October  would  be  too  early  in  the  term  to  have  intended 
consequences; that an earlier start date for the term could have cost implications for certain Faculties; that 
a break in November may isolate certain students; and that turnouts for mental health-related programming 
for students might be minimal. 
 
Dean  Allen  Berger  read  from  a  prepared  statement  that  contained  several  comments  regarding  the 
proposal,  including,  but  not  limited  to:    student  mental  health  remains  a  top  priority  to  Deans  and  the 
University of Alberta; that the proposal is not evidence based in terms of how the week off, proposed in 
November, properly addresses issues of student mental health; that a mid-November break is too late in 
the term to assist struggling students; that early identification of academic problems is crucial to solvency; 
that the best predictor of academic success is performance in the first term and that success in the first 
term  depends  on  successful  adjustment  within  the  first  weeks  of  that  term;  that  Orientation  would  be 
impacted  at  Augustana  Faculty,  as  it  is  not  run  by  students;  that  McMaster  University  just  instituted  a 
shorter break in October; and that Deans would like to collaborate with the students to address some of 
these issues. 
 
Mr  Yamagishi  acknowledged  his  willingness  to  work  with  Deans  to  address  their  concerns,  adding  that 
students are extremely supportive of the full week break. 

 

The Umbrella Committee (TUC) Report 

Dr Samarasekera stated that, in order to move forward in a positive manner on this student-led initiative, 
compromise between the SU and the Deans will be necessary and that evidence should be reviewed to 
come to an agreement satisfactory to concerned stakeholders. 
 
9. 
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
Presenter: Martin Ferguson-Pell, Acting Provost and Vice-President (Academic) 
 
Discussion: 
Dr Ferguson-Pell spoke briefly to this Report.  Due to time constraints, however, there was little opportunity 

General Faculties Council / 3/14/2013 
Page 9 

 
for members to ask questions or engage in discussion on this item.   
 
10.  Question Period  
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
10.1Q/10.1R    Question  from  GFC  Member  Mr  Adam  Woods  (Undergraduate  Student  Representative) 
Regarding Residence Services’ Complaint and Response from Vice-Provost and Dean of Students Frank 
Robinson to Question Raised by Mr Woods 
 
10.2Q/10.2R Question from GFC Member Mr Roy Coulthard (Graduate Student Representative) Regarding 
Media Representation from an Alberta Post-Secondary Institution and Response from the Vice-President 
(University Relations) to Question Raised by Mr Coultard 
 
Discussion: 
Mr Woods and Mr Coulthard both acknowledged the responses to their submitted questions. 
 
Mr  Yamagishi  enquired  about  how  options  in  response  to  the  Provincial  Budget  will  be  determined  and 
suggested  that  members  of  the  academy  should  be  included  within  the  decision-making,  particularly 
through GFC and the Board of Governors.  Dr Samarasekera replied that there are established processes 
in  place  to  make  these  determinations  and  that  students  are  involved  through  their  participation  on 
governance  committees  and  will  be  afforded  many  opportunities  to  contribute  to  the  discussions.    She 
added that it would not be advantageous to create more processes. 
 
A member asked if there would be an opportunity ask questions and discuss further the final report of The 
Umbrella  Committee  (TUC)  (as  before  members  on  the  occasion  of  today’s  GFC  meeting).    Dr 
Samarasekera stated this report would be brought forward once again to the next meeting of GFC to allow 
for discussion. 
 
INFORMATION REPORTS 
 
11.  GFC Executive Committee Minutes of January 9 and February 4, 2013 
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
There was no discussion. 
 
12.  Reports of the Board of Governors of February 8, 2013 
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
There was no discussion. 
 
13.  E-Mail Report of the GFC Nominating Committee (January 7, 2013) 
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
There was no discussion. 
 
14.  E-Mail Report of the GFC Replenishment Committee  
 

 

 

 

 

General Faculties Council / 3/14/2013 
Page 10 

 

Information Items Forwarded to GFC Members Between Meetings 
 

 
There was no report to date. 
 
15. 
 
There were no items to date. 
 
16.  Reports 
 
There were no reports to date. 
 
CLOSING SESSION 
 
17.  Adjournment 
 
The Chair adjourned the meeting at 4:00 pm. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
R:\GO05 General Faculties Council - Committees\GEN\12-13\MR-14\Minutes\Final-Minutes.Docx