General Faculties Council 

Approved Open Session Minutes 

Monday, October 28, 2013 
1-140, Centennial Centre for Interdisciplinary Science (CCIS) 
2:00 PM - 4:00 PM 

 

 

 
ATTENDEES: 
 
Voting Members: 
Martin Ferguson-Pell (delegate) 

Lorne Babiuk 
Marina Banister 
Gary Barron 
Mike Belosevic 
Ed Blackburn 
Norman Brown 
Philip Bryden 
Deborah Burshtyn 
Katy Campbell 
Dustin Chelen 

Phyllis Clark 

Lisa Collins 
Lesley Cormack 
Chris DeGara 
Kathleen DeLong 
Michael Deyholos 
Joseph Doucet 
Maxwell Douglas 
Lise Gotell 
Robert Haennel 
Cory Hodgson 
James Hwang 
Averi Iwaniuk 
Lindsay Johnston 
Kaori Kabata 
James Kehrer 

Walter Dixon (Delegate) 

Terence Kersch 

(Finance  and  Administration), 

Member,  Acting  Provost  and  Vice-President  (Academic), 
Statutory, and Acting Chair, President, Statutory  
Member, Vice-President (Research), Statutory  
Member, Undergraduate Student Member-Arts  
Member, Graduate Student at-Large  
Member, Board of Governors Representative, GFC Appointee  
Member, Acting Dean, Campus Saint-Jean, Statutory  
Member, Statutory Academic Staff  
Member, Dean, Law, Statutory  
Member, Statutory Academic Staff  
Member, Dean, Extension, Statutory  
Member, Student Nominated by UG Council of Students, Vice-
President (Academic)  
Member,  Vice-President 
Statutory  
Member, Vice-Provost and University Registrar, Statutory  
Member, Dean, Arts, Statutory  
Member, Statutory Academic Staff  
Member, University Library Academic Staff  
Member, Statutory Academic Staff  
Member, Dean, Business, Statutory  
Member, Undergraduate Student Member-Science  
Member, Statutory Academic Staff  
Member, Acting Dean, Rehabilitation Medicine, Statutory  
Member, Undergraduate Student Member-Science  
Member, Undergraduate Student Member-Science  
Member, Undergraduate Student Member-Education  
Member, University Library Academic Staff  
Member, Statutory Academic Staff  
Member,  Dean,  Pharmacy  and  Pharmaceutical  Sciences, 
Statutory  
Member, Dean, Agricultural, Life and Environmental Sciences, 
Statutory  
Member,  St  Joseph's  College  Representative  and  Additional 
Appointee  

 
Katherine Koch 
Greg Kondrak 
Petros Kusmu 

William Lau 

John Law 
Robert Lederer 
Pierre Lemelin 
Bernard Lemire 
Qiang Li 
Mark Loewen 
Kathleen Lowrey 
David Lynch 
Yongshen Ma 
Godfrey Man 
Jennifer McGetrick 
Misha Miazga-Rodriguez 
Kelsey Mills 
Colin More 

Majd Mouzaffar 
Kerry Mummery 
Norma Nocente 
Isaac Odoom 
O'Neil Outar 
Steve Patten 
Debra Pozega Osburn 
Joanne Profetto-McGrath 
Christopher Pu 

Krista Reich 
Patrick Reid 
Sean Robertson 
Frank Robinson 

Toni Samek 
John Beamish (delegate) 
Mazi Shirvani 

Chloe Speakman 
Marcia Spetch 
Bruce Sutherland 
Sukhprett Tamana 
Guillaume Tardif 
Navjot Thind 
Amy Tse 
Richard Uwiera 
Mirko van der Baan 
Andrew Vela 

GFC General Faculties Council 10/28/2013 
Page 2 

Member, University Library Academic Staff  
Member, Statutory Academic Staff  
Member,  Board  of  Governors  Representative,  President, 
Students' Union  
Member,  Student  Nominated  by  UG  Council  of  Students,  VP 
Student Life  
Member, Statutory Academic Staff  
Member, Statutory Academic Staff  
Member, Statutory Academic Staff  
Member, Statutory Academic Staff  
Member, Graduate Student at-Large  
Member, Statutory Academic Staff  
Member, Statutory Academic Staff  
Member, Dean, Engineering, Statutory  
Member, Statutory Academic Staff  
Member, Statutory Academic Staff  
Member, Graduate Student at-Large  
Member, Graduate Student at-Large  
Member, Undergraduate Student Member-Arts  
Member, Student Nominated by Grad Council of Students, VP 
Academic, GSA  
Member, Undergraduate Student Member-Arts  
Member, Dean, Physical Education and Recreation, Statutory  
Member, Statutory Academic Staff  
Member, Graduate Student at-Large  
Member, Vice-President (Advancement), Statutory  
Member, Statutory Academic Staff  
Member, Vice-President (University Relations), Statutory  
Member, Acting Dean, Nursing, Statutory  
Member,  Board  of  Governors  Representative,  NASA 
Appointee  
Member, Graduate Student at-Large  
Member, Graduate Student at-Large  
Member, Statutory Academic Staff  
Member,  Vice-Provost  and  Dean  of  Students  and  Additional 
Appointee  
Member, Statutory Academic Staff  
Member, Dean, Science, Statutory  
Member,  Vice-Provost  and  Dean,  Graduate  Studies  and 
Research, Statutory  
Member, Undergraduate Student Member-Science  
Member, Statutory Academic Staff  
Member, Statutory Academic Staff  
Member, Graduate Student at-Large  
Member, Statutory Academic Staff  
Member, Graduate Student at-Large  
Member, Statutory Academic Staff  
Member, APOs/FSOs, FSO  
Member, Statutory Academic Staff  
Member, Undergraduate Student Member-Education  

GFC General Faculties Council 10/28/2013 
Page 3 

Member, Statutory Academic Staff  
Member, APO (AASUA) Representative  
Member, Statutory Academic Staff  
Member, Statutory Academic Staff  
Member,  Undergraduate  Student  Member-Pharmacy  and 
Pharmaceutical Sciences  
Member, Graduate Student at-Large  
 

Member, Board of Governors Representative, GFC Appointee  
Chair, GFC Nominating Committee  
Director  of  GFC  Services  and  Secretary  to  GFC,  University 
Governance  
Vice-President (Finance and Administration  
Acting  President  and  Acting  Chair,  General  Faculties  Council 
(and Acting Provost and Vice-President (Academic) and Acting 
Chair, GFC Executive Committee)  
 

 
Dilini Vethanayagam 
David Whalen 
Bill Whelton 
Jonathan White 
Rob Wright 

Richard Zhao 
                                       
Presenter(s): 
Mike Belosevic 
Ed Blackburn 
Garry Bodnar 

Phyllis Clark 
Martin Ferguson-Pell 

                                       
Staff: 
Garry Bodnar, Director of GFC Services and Secretary to GFC  
Marion Haggarty-France, University Secretary  
Andrea Patrick, Scribe 
                                          
OPENING SESSION 
 
1.  Approval of the Agenda  
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
Motion:  Profetto-McGrath/Cormack 
 

THAT the General Faculties Council approve the Agenda.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                       CARRIED 

 
2.  Approval of the Minutes of September 16, 2013  
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
Motion:  Cormack/Chelen 
 

THAT the General Faculties Council approve the Minutes of September 16, 2013. 

CARRIED 

 
3.  Comments from the Acting Chair  
Acting  Chair  Dr  Martin  Ferguson-Pell  welcomed  members  to  the  391st  meeting  of  General  Faculties 
Council (GFC) and commented on the following: 

GFC General Faculties Council 10/28/2013 
Page 4 

 
-  Updates regarding the 2013-2014 and 2014-2015 University of Alberta budget. 
-  The extension of congratulations to several members of the University of Alberta community including 
Professor  Tim  Caulfield,  Board  of  Governors  Chair  Douglas  Goss,    Professor  Anne  McLellan,  and 
Dean John Kennelly for recent personal and professional accolades. 

-  Updates about the University of Alberta’s international rankings. 
-  Updates about recent meetings with the the Premier of Alberta and the Deputy Premier and Minister of 
Enterprise and Advanced Education (EAE) regarding Campus Alberta, tuition, funding models, results-
based budgeting, the Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA), and the Alberta Institute concept.  

-  An update about the Letter of Expectation (LOE).  Dr Ferguson-Pell noted that the Board of Governors 
had  reviewed  the  LOE  and  approved  it  for  signature  by  the  Chair  of  the  Board  of  Governors.    He 
thanked members of the community for their feedback on and engagement surrounding the drafting of 
the LOE. 

 
ACTION ITEMS 
 
4.  New Members of GFC  
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
Presenter: Martin Ferguson-Pell, Acting Chair, General Faculties Council (GFC), and Acting Provost and 
Vice-President (Academic) 
 
Discussion:  
There was no discussion. 
 
Motion:  Shirvani/Mummery 
 
MOTION I: TO APPOINT/REAPPOINT [This motion may be proposed only by statutory members of GFC 
– VPs, Deans, statutory students or elected faculty members]:  
 
The  following  graduate  student  representative,  to  serve  on  GFC  for  a  term  beginning  immediately  and 
ending April 30, 2014: 
 

Misha Miazga-Rodriguez 

Faculty of Science 

 
The following non-academic staff representative nominated by the Non-Academic Staff Association (NASA) 
for a term beginning immediately and ending June 30, 2014: 
 

  Rod Loyola 

 
 

President, Non-Academic Staff Association (NASA) and  
University of Alberta International 

The following academic staff member to represent administrative professional and faculty service officers, 
for a term beginning immediately and ending June 30, 2014: 

David Whalen                                     Buildings and Grounds Services, Facilities and Operations 

 
                                    
                                                                                                                                                         CARRIED                                                                                                                                                

GFC General Faculties Council 10/28/2013 
Page 5 

 
DISCUSSION ITEMS 
 
5.  University of Alberta Budget 2014-15 – Update 
There were no documents. 
 
Presenter(s): Martin Ferguson-Pell, Acting Chair, General Faculties Council (GFC) and Acting Provost and 
Vice-President (Academic); Phyllis Clark, Vice-President (Finance and Administration) 
 
Purpose of the Proposal: For information/discussion. 
 
Discussion: 
At this point in the meeting, Vice-President (Research) Babiuk assumed the Chair. 
 
Aided  by  a  PowerPoint  presentation,  Vice-President  (Finance  and  Administration)  Clark  provided  a  brief 
outline  to frame  discussion  surrounding  the  2014-2015  University  of  Alberta  budget.    She  explained  the 
elements  of the  consolidated  budget  of the  institution,  which  is  required  to  be reported to  the  Provincial 
Government, the largest funder of the University of Alberta. She pointed out that the information within the 
presentation  could  be  found  in  the  2012  Comprehensive  Institutional  Plan  (CIP).    She  highlighted  for 
members the differences between restricted versus unrestricted activities and listed the University’s actual 
expenditures.    She  noted  that  there  were  differences  in  reporting  this  year  due  to  the  Public  Sector 
Accounting Board (PSAB) changes.  Ms Clark detailed the elements of the University’s operating budget 
and discussed ways in which operating budgets are determined. 
 
Ms  Clark  continued  by  explaining  the  issues  associated  with  the  University’s  structural  deficit.    She 
provided  data  to  highlight  the  budget  cuts  for  2012-2013,  2013-2014  and  2014-2015,  broken  down  into 
‘Faculties’ and ‘Support’ categories.  She noted that the information, at this point, is provisional and that 
further work is required to finalize the numbers. 
 
Dr  Ferguson-Pell  noted  that  the  figures  contained  in  the  presentation  are  complex  and  discouraged 
members from making blind comparisons across units.  He stated that, while there has been an increased 
focus on transparency surrounding budget planning, there is also a responsibility to use the data correctly.  
He invited those with questions or concerns to contact his Office to discuss them in greater detail, rather 
than jumping to conclusions. He reminded members to reference Change@Ualberta.ca for budget primer 
information and updates. 
 
Dr Ferguson-Pell outlined the core budget table planning assumptions, noting that the assumptions may 
change  between  now  and  final  approval  of  the  budget.    In  terms  of  the  2014-2015  provisional  cuts,  he 
noted  that  each  Dean  was  individually  consulted  before final figures  were  determined,  and the  range of 
cuts  to  Faculties  average  between  6%-7.5%,  but  that  up  to  2%  of  this  can  be  mitigated  by  approved 
revenue  generation.    He  stated  that  121  applications  for  the  Voluntary  Severance  Program  (VSP)  were 
approved across the institution and highlighted relevant data from each Faculty.  
 
In  his  concluding  remarks,  Dr  Ferguson-Pell  provided  members  with  a  key  decision  timeline  including 
meeting dates and those bodies delegated to consider, recommend on, and approve the budget. 
 

GFC General Faculties Council 10/28/2013 
Page 6 

 
During  the  lengthy  ensuing  discussion,  members  expressed  comments  and  questions  in  relation  to  this 
presentation,  including,  but  not  limited  to:  clarification  surrounding  the  exact  definition  of  a  ‘unit’; 
clarification about changes to the pension plan; clarification about the exact percentage of the budget that 
is allotted to the education of students; clarification surrounding changes to the Office of the Provost and 
Vice-President  (Academic);  gratitude  for  the  increased  level  of  transparency  related  to  the  budget; 
commentary  that  there  appear  to  be  duplication  of  services  across  the  academy  which  warrant  further 
review;  commentary  that  there  is  a  lack  of  necessary  networking  available  to  foster  certain  areas  of 
research  across  the  institution;  clarification  about  the  consolidated  budget;  clarification  about  the 
provisional cuts; a request for the models used to determine the percentages; clarification about the 2% 
revenue  generation  concept;  commentary  that  other  opportunities  to  save  money  exist  which  could  be 
rolled  out  quickly  and  that  these  opportunities  are  being  missed;  a  query  whether  increasing  the 
international  student  differential  is  being  considered;  clarification  about  the  role  of  the  Renaissance 
Committee; whether the University of Alberta, following in the footsteps of the University of Calgary, will be 
striking a committee to review long-term budget issues; how Central Administration will be responding to 
comments and suggestions provided in such forums as IdeaScale; commentary  that the numbers within 
the presentation appear to not match up; commentary that the documentation outlining each Faculty’s cut 
is not being provided, as had been stated; clarification about what exact percentage of Faculty-generated 
revenue will remain within Faculties; whether Central Administration has discussed increasing international 
students  with  the  Ministry  of  Enterprise  and  Advanced  Education  (EAE);  whether  international  tuition 
covers the actual costs associated with educating international students; clarification about the process of 
Faculty-led revenue generation; and clarification about the relationship between charged student fees and 
the related student services. 
 
Dr  Ferguson-Pell  thanked  members  for  their  consideration  and  noted  that  any  updates  relating  to  the 
budget would be communicated to members. 
 
Dr Ferguson-Pell reassumed the chair. 
 
6.  Question Period  
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
Presenter: Martin Ferguson-Pell, Acting Chair, General Faculties Council (GFC), and Acting Provost and 
Vice-President (Academic) 
 
6.1Q/6.1R 

6.2Q/6.2R 

6.3Q/6.3R 

Question  from  GFC  Member  Professor  Pierre  Lemelin  Regarding  Figures  on  the  Total 
Number of Staff Contained in the 2012 and 2013 Financial Statements and  
Response  from  Vice-President  (Finance  and  Administration)  Phyllis  Clark  to  Question 
Raised by Professor Lemelin  
Question  from  GFC  Member  Mr  William  Lau  Regarding  International  Student  Fee 
Differentials and  
Response  from  Vice-President  (Finance  and  Administration)  Phyllis  Clark  to  Question 
Raised by Mr Lau  
Question  from  GFC  Member  Mr  Petros  Kusmu  Regarding  Consultation  Regarding  and 
GFC 
the  Edmonton  Downtown  Arts  and  Cultural  Centre  
and  
Response from Vice-President (Facilities and Operations) Don Hickey to Question Raised 

Involvement 

in 

 

6.4Q/6.4R 

6.5Q/6.5R 

6.6Q/6.6R 

6.7Q/6.7R 

6.8Q/6.8R 

6.9Q/6.9R 

6.10Q/6.10R 

6.11Q/6.11R 

GFC General Faculties Council 10/28/2013 
Page 7 

by Mr Kusmu   
Question from GFC Member Professor Jeremy Richards Regarding GFC’s Consideration 
of a Fall Term Reading Week Proposal and  
Response  from  Acting  Provost  and  Vice-President  (Academic)  Martin  Ferguson-Pell  to 
Question Raised by Professor Richards  
Question  from  GFC  Member  Professor  Jeremy  Richards  Regarding  the  Availability  of 
Budget Letters Sent to Deans and  
Response  from  Acting  Provost  and  Vice-President  (Academic)  Martin  Ferguson-Pell  to 
Question Raised by Professor Richards  
Question  from  GFC  Member  Mr  Dustin  Chelen  Regarding  Provision  of  Budgetary 
Information to the University Community and 
Response from President Indira Samarasekera to Question Raised by Mr Chelen 
Question  from  GFC  Member  Mr  Dustin  Chelen  Regarding  Student  Participation  in  the 
Provost’s Digital Learning Committee and 
Response  from  Acting  Provost  and  Vice-President  (Academic)  Martin  Ferguson-Pell  to 
Question Raised by Mr Chelen  
Question from  GFC  Member  Mr  Dustin  Chelen  Regarding  a  Potential  Hiring  Freeze for 
Administrative Units and 
Response from President Indira Samarasekera to Question Raised by Mr Chelen  
Question from GFC Member Mr Dustin Chelen Regarding Consultation Timelines on the 
Leadership College and 
Response from President Indira Samarasekera to Question Raised by Mr Chelen  
Question  from  GFC  Member  Mr  Dustin  Chelen  Regarding  University  Community 
Involvement in Institutional Messaging and  
Response from President Indira Samarasekera to Question Raised by Mr Chelen  
Question from GFC Member Mr Dustin Chelen Regarding Membership of the Lougheed 
Leadership Initiative Advisory Board and 
Response from President Indira Samarasekera to Question Raised by Mr Chelen  

 
Discussion: 
Regarding Item 6.1Q, Dr Lemelin expressed confusion about the reported numbers, and Ms Clark replied 
that the numbers are submitted at different times and from different sources.  She pledged to work off-line 
with Dr Lemelin to better explain the alleged discrepency. 
 
Regarding Item 6.9Q, Mr Chelen asked if the building of the Leadership College will be a future topic for 
General Faculties Council (GFC) consideration.  Dr Ferguson-Pell replied that he will have more updates 
about this project as more information becomes available. 
 
Mr Kusmu enquired about the lack of separation between domestic and international students in relation to 
funding  within  the  Comprehensive  Institutional  Plan  (CIP),  and  Dr  Ferguson-Pell  replied  that  due  to  the 
complexity of the answer, a full response would be provided later. 
 

GFC General Faculties Council 10/28/2013 
Page 8 

 
Professor Lowrey complimented Mr Chelen on the calibre of his submitted questions, while noting that the 
provided answers were, in her opinion, “terrible,” and asked Mr Chelen the reasoning for submitting them.  
Mr Chelen replied that, in his opinion, GFC is a great venue for discussion and debate and that adding 
more questions regarding various issues is important to him.  Dr Ferguson-Pell noted that he is interested 
in providing good answers to submitted questions and welcomed any feedback GFC members may have 
regarding the nature of the written responses provided. 
 
Professor Burshtyn enquired what the University of Alberta’s response will be to the Ministry of Enterprise 
and Advanced Education (EAE) regarding their recent denial of the University of Alberta’s proposal calling 
for the establishment of a Master’s program in Women’s and Gender Studies.  Dean Cormack replied that 
the  Faculty  of  Arts  was  working  on  a  coordinated  response  to  this  issue  and  gathering  additional 
information  and  that  she  will  be  organizing  a  meeting  with  the  Ministry  of  EAE  to  discuss  their  specific 
concerns.    She  noted  the  Faculty  was  still  very  much  committed  to  the  offering  of  this  graduate-level 
program. 
 
INFORMATION REPORTS 
 
7.  GFC Executive Committee Minutes of August 26, 2013  

Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 

There was no discussion. 

8.  Report of the Board of Governors  
There was no report to date. 

9.      E-Mail Report of the GFC Nominating Committee (October 9, 2013) 

Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 

There was no discussion. 

10.  E-Mail Report of the GFC Replenishment Committee 

There was no report to date. 

Information Items Forwarded to GFC Members Between Meetings  

11. 
There were no items to date. 
 
12.  Reports  

 
- Annual Report of the Residence Community Standards Review Committee (RCSRC)  
 
- Office of Student Judicial Affairs 2012-2013 Annual Report and Statistics  

 

GFC General Faculties Council 10/28/2013 
Page 9 

 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
There was no discussion. 
 
CLOSING SESSION 
 
13.  Adjournment 
The Chair adjourned the meeting at 4:10 pm. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
R:\GO05 General Faculties Council - Committees\GEN\13-14\OC-28\Minutes\Final-Minutes.docx