
















































 
 
 
 
 

General Faculties Council 
Approved Open Session Minutes 

 
Monday, September 25, 2017 
Council Chamber, 2-100 University Hall (UNH) 
2:00 PM - 4:00 PM 

 
 
ATTENDEES: 
Statutory Members: 
Ex-Officio: 
David Turpin, Chair  
Chris Andersen 
Lisa Collins  
Lesley Cormack 
Greta Cummings 
Kathleen DeLong 
Steven Dew 
Walter Dixon 
Joseph Doucet 
Gitta Kulczycki 
Pierre-Yves Mocquais 
Kerry Mummery 
Paul Paton 
Jonathan Schaeffer 
Andrew Sharman 
Jacqui Tam 
Jennifer Tupper 
Heather Zwicker 
Elected faculty: 
Jason Acker 
Susan Andrew  
Jeff Birchall 
Cary Brown 
Sylvia Brown 
Peter Carver 
Ryan Dunch 
Tarek El-Bialy 
Duncan Elliott 
Nadir Erbilgin 
Dean Eurich 
Bill Foster 
Kim Frail 
Murray Gingras 
Lesley Harrington 
Eva Lemaire 
Pierre Lemelin 

Mark Loewen 
Lisa McDermott 
Rob McMahon 
Lynn McMullen 
Al Meldrum 
Alice Nakamura 
Carla Peck 
Leonard Ratzlaff 
Carolyn Sale 
Jorge Sousa 
Lisa Stein 
Eleni Stroulia 
Brent Swallow 
Benjamin Tucker 
Dilini Vethanayagam 
Akiko Watanabe 
Ian Winship 
Students: 
Firouz Khodayari 
Shane Scott 
Ilya Ushakov 
 
Appointed 
Members: 
Solomon Amoateng 
Ruben Araya 
Marina Banister 
Matthew Barnett 
Darcy Bemister 
Robert Bilak 
Katherine Binhammer 
Michelle Borowitz 
Meijun Chen 
Darren Choi 
André Costopoulos 
Jonah Dunch 
Kyle Foster 
Srosh Hassan 

Connor Hastey 
Palindat 

Delane Howie 
Maryam Kebbe 
Maryse Ndilu Kiese 
Monica Lillo 
Steven Lin 
Kyle Monda 
Sean Oliver 
Michael Sandare 
Babak Soltannia 
Andrews Tawiah 
James Thibaudeau 
LJ Valencia 
Amanda Wakaruk 
Janet Williamson 
Ziyu Yang 
 
REGRETS: 
Katherine Aitchison 
Allen Berger 
Stanford Blade 
Abigail Bridarolli 
Heather Bruce 
Katy Campbell 
Li-Kwong Cheah 
Brandon Christensen 
David Cooper 
Pamela Mayne 
Correia  
Neal Davies 
Benjamin Denga 
Genna DiPinto  
Shannon Erichsen 
Shawn Flynn 
Fraser Forbes 
Adam Gaudry 
Robert Haennel 

Daanish Hamid    
Irehobhude Iyioha  
Mahmoud Kenawi 
Dennis Kunimoto 
Alex Kwan 
Leijun Li 
Wei Liu  
Habba Mahal 
Godfrey Man  
Heather McCaw 
Laurie Mereu  
Roger Moore 
Vivian Mushahwar 
Katelynn Nguyen 
Anthony Nguyen 
Smit Patel 
Georg Schmolzer 
Marc Secanell 
Carrie Smith-Prei 
Kim Solez 
Sarah Stahlke 
Bruce Sutherland 
Amy Tse 
Eddie Wang 
Bonnie Watt 
Jonathan White 
Brayden Whitlock 
Erin Wright 
Kue Young 
 
STAFF: 
Meg Brolley, GFC 
Secretary 
Marion Haggarty-
France, University 
Secretary 
Andrea Patrick, scribe 

 
  



GFC General Faculties Council 09/25/2017 
Page 2 

 
OPENING SESSION 
 
1. Approval of the Agenda  
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
Motion: Dew/Cormack 
 
THAT General Faculties Council approve the Agenda. 

CARRIED 
 
2. Approval of the Minutes of June 5, 2017  
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
Motion: Dew/Nakamura 
 
THAT General Faculties Council approve the Minutes of June 5, 2017. 

CARRIED 
 
3. A. Indigenous Welcome  

B. Report from the President  
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
Discussion: 
Following an Indigenous welcome provided by Ms Marilyn Buffalo, the Chair welcomed special guests from the 
University of Alberta Senate and all new and returning members of GFC, including several new Deans and 
Senior Administrators. 
 
The Chair then provided a summary of the Board of Governors retreat, the status of the provincial reviews of the 
funding model and tuition review, an update on the bargaining process, a reminder of the importance of donating 
to the United Way campaign launching in October, and a summary of advocacy efforts in support of the 
recommendations within the Naylor Report.  The Chair thanked members for their participation in recent Green 
and Gold Day events, Alumni Weekend, and the Canada 150 celebration at South Campus. 
 
Following these opening remarks, members discussed the use of the term “fake news” within the President’s 
Report. 
 
4. New Members of GFC  

[Note: A motion to appoint may be proposed only by a statutory member of GFC. A motion to receive may 
be proposed by any member of GFC.]  

 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
Presenter(s): David Turpin 
 
Purpose of the Proposal: To appoint, re-appoint and receive new members of General Faculties Council. 
 
Discussion: 
GFC Secretary Meg Brolley provided a verbal update of two additional names for consideration. 



GFC General Faculties Council 09/25/2017 
Page 3 

 
 
Motion I: Loewen/Mocquais 
 
MOTION I: TO APPOINT/REAPPOINT  [This motion may be proposed only by statutory members of GFC – 
VPs, Deans, statutory students or elected faculty members]:  
 
 
The following representative of St Joseph’s College, for a term beginning July 1, 2017 and extending for the 
duration of the appointment: 
 
 Shawn Flynn                          Academic Dean (St. Joseph’s College) 
 
 
The following non-academic staff representative nominated by the Non-Academic Staff Association (NASA), for 
a term beginning July 1, 2017 and ending June 30, 2020: 
 
 Shannon Erichsen              Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry 
 
The following academic staff member nominated by GFC to the Board of Governors and appointed to GFC for a 
term that is concurrent with the term on the Board (July 1, 2017 to June 30, 2020): 
 
 Katherine Binhammer  Department of English and Film Studies 
                Faculty of Arts 
 
The following academic staff member to represent University Library Academic Staff, for a term beginning July 
1, 2017 and ending June 30, 2020: 
 
           Janet Williamson  Winspear Business Library 
                                       University Libraries 
 

CARRIED 
 
 
Motion II: Zwicker/Cormack 
 
MOTION II: TO RECEIVE [This motion may be proposed by any member of GFC]: 
 
The following ex officio member, to serve on GFC for a term of office beginning July 1, 2017 and extending for 
the duration of the appointment: 
 
 Chris Andersen Dean, Faculty of Native Studies 
 
 
The following ex officio member, to serve on GFC for a term of office beginning September  1, 2017 and 
extending for the duration of the appointment: 
 
 Dennis Kunimoto Acting Dean, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry 
 
The following statutory faculty member/s who has been elected/re-elected by their Faculty, to serve on GFC for 
term of office beginning July 1, 2017 and ending June 30, 2020: 
 
Duncan Elliot Faculty of Engineering 



GFC General Faculties Council 09/25/2017 
Page 4 

 
Rob McMahon Faculty of Extension 

Katherine Aitchison Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry 

Tarek El-Bialy Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry 

Vivian Mushahwar Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry 

Georg Schmolzer Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry 

Ian Winship Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry 
 

CARRIED 
 
DISCUSSION ITEMS 
 
5. A. Goals from the Students Union (SU) 2017-2018  

B. Graduate Students' Association (GSA) Strategic Work Plan 2017-2018  
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
Presenter(s): Marina Banister, President, Students’ Union; Babak Soltannia, President, Graduate Students’ 
Association 
 
Purpose of the Proposal: To provide members with the strategic goals of the Students’ Union (SU) and 
Graduate Students’ Association (GSA) for 2017-2018. 
 
Discussion: 
Following the presentations delivered by Ms Banister and Mr Soltannia on the current strategic goals of the 
Students’ Union (SU) and Graduate Students’ Association for 2017-2018, questions arose during the discussion 
in relation to funding advocacy as well as use of the CPI in tuition calculations. 
 
6. University of Alberta Senate Strategic Plan  
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
Presenter(s): Douglas Stollery, Chancellor 
 
Purpose of the Proposal: To provide members with a summary of the Senate Strategic Plan 2017-2021. 
 
Discussion: 
Chancellor Stollery provided a brief summary of the Senate Strategic Plan 2017-2021 to members, noting that 
five goals will be tackled in the coming year.  These goals are based on the themes of the Senate’s role: 
Connect, Inquire, and Promote. 
 
There was no further discussion. 
 
7. Budget Update 
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
Presenter(s): Steven Dew, Provost and Vice-President (Academic); Gitta Kulczycki, Vice-President (Finance 
and Administration) 
 
Purpose of the Proposal: To provide GFC with an update of the university budget. 



GFC General Faculties Council 09/25/2017 
Page 5 

 
 
Discussion: 
Dr Dew and Ms Kulczycki provided an overview of the University of Alberta budget framework. 
 
Dr Dew provided an update on the current provincial government reviews of tuition and the funding model, both 
of which will impact the university’s budget.  He indicated that these reviews will be complete sometime this fall. 
 
Ms Kulczycki presented the financial overview of the institutional budget including current financial challenges.  
These include provincial funding uncertainties tied to the Alberta economy and the ongoing structural deficit at 
the university. 
 
Dr Dew reported that there are several budget initiatives in development at the university including the creation 
of the new budget model, planning framework and annual budget cycle, and the utilization of uPlan software 
intended to support the budget planning process. 
 
During the discussion, members enquired about the benefit of the one-year budget framework and Faculty 
involvement in budget framework decisions. 
 
ACTION ITEMS 
 
8. Proposed Changes to the University of Alberta Convocation Admission  
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
Presenter(s): Douglas Stollery, Chancellor 
 
Purpose of the Proposal: To discuss and approve proposed changes to the University of Alberta Convocation 
Admission. 
 
Discussion: 
Chancellor Stollery reported that, since his initial consultation with GFC, the Chaplains’ Association provided a 
range of feedback on this proposal including a perceived lack of spirituality in the language of the Convocation 
Admission. 
 
During the ensuing discussion, the Chancellor addressed a question around whether the proposed changes 
isolate people of faith. 
 
Motion: Doucet/Banister 
 
THAT General Faculties Council approve the proposed changes to the Convocation Admission, as set forth 
in Attachment 1, and as proposed by the University of Alberta Senate, to take effect upon final approval. 

CARRIED 
 
9. Proposed Increase to Required English Language Proficiency (ELP) Scores for Undergraduate Admission  
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
Presenter(s):Lisa Collins, Vice-Provost and University Registrar 
 
Purpose of the Proposal: To make changes to the minimum overall TOEFL score and the minimum band score 
for the IELTS Academic to better support student success and increase the likelihood of improved academic 
outcomes. The proposed changes are supported by research undertaken by the Office of the Registrar. 



GFC General Faculties Council 09/25/2017 
Page 6 

 
 
 
 
Discussion: 
Ms Collins provided members with a summary of the proposal. She noted that research conducted by Enrolment 
Management in the Office of the Registrar showed the correlation between a higher overall ELP score and 
student success in first year courses, as indicated by final GPA and/or course withdrawals. She added that the 
proposed requirements align with those of the other U15 institutions.  
 
Ms Collins, during the discussion, noted that students not admitted due to the increased requirement would still 
be able to apply to the university through the Bridging program. 
 
Motion: Collins/Cormack 
 
THAT General Faculties Council approve: 
 
- the minimum overall TOEFL score be increased 4 points to 90, with no change to the required score of 21 
on each band. 
 
- the minimum band score for the IELTS Academic be increased from 5.0 to 5.5, with no change to the 
required minimum overall score of 6.5 
 
as recommended by the GFC Academic Planning Committee and the GFC Academic Standards 
Committee, as set forth in Attachment 4, to take effect fall 2018. 

CARRIED 
 
10. Report of the GFC Committee on the Learning Environment (CLE) on Teaching and Learning and 

Teaching Evaluation and the Use of Universal Student Ratings of Instruction (USRI) as an Evaluation Tool  
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file.  
 
Presenter(s): Sarah Forgie, Chair, GFC Committee on the Learning Environment; Norma Nocente, Associate 
Director, Centre for Teaching and Learning (CTL);L Francisco Vargas, Research Coordinator  
 
Purpose of the Proposal: The GFC Committee on the Learning Environment (CLE) was requested by GFC to 
report on research into the use of student rating mechanisms of instruction in university courses. This report 
fulfills this request.  
 
Discussion:  
Prior to the presentation on the Report, GFC Secretary and Manager of GFC Services Meg Brolley provided an 
update to members on the amended wording of the original motion to include the term “non-discriminatory”, and 
that although the meeting material did not include the term, the Report did address it.  
 
Chair of the GFC Committee on the Learning Environment (CLE) Sarah Forgie provided members with a 
summary of the Report including details about the scholarly methodology of researching and compiling the data 
presented.  She noted that this project also obtained ethics approval and included consultation with Department 
Chairs at the university. Dr Forgie indicated that the CLE recommendations provided with the report were 
crafted to lay out the next steps for further action. 
 
A member expressed concern with the omission of “non-discriminatory” from the wording of the motion and 
indicated that it had impacted the findings within the report, in that it does not adequately address gender bias, 



GFC General Faculties Council 09/25/2017 
Page 7 

 
and bias against visible minorities.  The member further noted that, because of these biases, student ratings of 
instruction should not be used in promotion and tenure decisions at the institution.   
 
Dr Nocente reported that the literature clearly reflects the value of student ratings of instruction and that student 
feedback at the post-secondary level is important. She noted that the USRI tool is not designed to be used as 
the only measure, but that Department Chairs may not have the resources to consider multifaceted evaluations. 
 
Following a motion to extend the meeting, the President vacated the Chair due to another commitment and the 
Provost assumed the role of Acting Chair. 
 
Following this, members continued to debate the relevance and prevalence of biases within the literature. 
 
Citing time constraints and with consensus from members that additional discussion was required, the Acting 
Chair suggested a motion to table this item to the next meeting of GFC. 
 
Motion:  Mocquais/Nakamura 
 
THAT General Faculties Council table the Report of the GFC Committee on the Learning Environment 
(CLE) on Teaching and Learning and Teaching Evaluation and the Use of Universal Student Ratings of 
Instruction (USRI) as an Evaluation Tool for further discussion at the next meeting of General Faculties 
Council. 

CARRIED 
 
11. Budget Model Principles  
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
Presenter(s): Steven Dew, Provost and Vice-President (Academic); Gitta Kulczycki, Vice-President (Finance 
and Administration) 
 
Purpose of the Proposal: To recommend for approval by GFC the principles that will guide and inform the 
development and application of a new budget model for the University of Alberta. 
 
Discussion: 
Dr Dew reported that the new budget model moves from the current increment-based model to one that is based 
on activities. Ms Kulczycki led members through a review of each proposed budget model principle. 
 
Members, during the ensuing discussion, sought clarification on whether Faculty-based budget data would be 
made public, how these principles recognize research, and how accountability would be achieved. 
 
Motion: Kulczycki/Mocquais 
 
THAT General Faculties Council recommend that the Board of Governors approve the Budget Model Principles, 
as recommended by the GFC Academic Planning Committee, and as set forth in Attachment 1, to take effect 
upon final approval. 

CARRIED 
 
12. Faculty of Graduate Studies and Research: Proposed Revisions to existing Supervision and Examinations 

policy  
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 



GFC General Faculties Council 09/25/2017 
Page 8 

 
Presenter(s): Heather Zwicker, Dean, Faculty of Graduate Studies and Research; Deborah Burshtyn, Vice-
Dean, Faculty of Graduate Studies and Research 
 
Purpose of the Proposal: The revisions are intended to clarify the policies, elaborate on procedures, and 
improve policies. The impact will be to have greater clarity for students, faculty and staff in the administration 
and conduct and outcomes of examinations in thesis-based programs. 
 
Discussion: 
With the consent of the proposers, this item was deferred to the next meeting of GFC due to time constraints. 
 
13. Proposed Faculty name change: Faculty of Kinesiology, Sport, and Recreation (from Faculty of Physical 

Education and Recreation)  
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
Presenter(s): Kerry Mummery, Dean, Faculty of Physical Education and Recreation 
 
Purpose of the Proposal: To change the name of the Faculty of Physical Education and Recreation to a 
name that more accurately depicts its academic mission and offerings, in support of attracting the best and 
brightest students and faculty, and being recognized as a leader among its peers. 
 
Discussion: 
Dean Mummery reported that the 2014 President’s Visiting Committee recommended a name change for the 
Faculty to reflect the evolution of the field of physical education. Following wide consultation with faculty 
members, staff, students and alumni, the proposed name was approved by Faculty Council earlier this year.  He 
noted that the addition of the word ‘sport’ to the title originated from inside the academy to reflect the Faculty’s 
expertise in sports-related subjects. Dean Mummery indicated that the proposed name would define and 
differentiate the Faculty on the national and international level. 
 
Motion: Mocquais/Dixon 
 
THAT General Faculties Council approve the proposed name change for the Faculty of Physical Education 
and Recreation to the ‘Faculty of Kinesiology, Sport, and Recreation’, as submitted by the Dean of the 
Faculty, to take effect upon final approval. 

CARRIED 
 
DISCUSSION ITEMS 
 
14. Question Period  
 
There were no questions. 
 
INFORMATION REPORTS 
 
15. Report of the GFC Executive Committee (June 12, September 11, 2017)  
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
16. Report of the GFC Academic Planning Committee (June 14, September 13, 2017)  
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 



GFC General Faculties Council 09/25/2017 
Page 9 

 
 
17. Report of the GFC Academic Standards Committee (June 15, September 21, 2017)  
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
18. Report of the GFC Nominating Committee  
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
19. Report of the GFC Replenishment Committee (June 26, 2017)  
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
20. Report of the Board of Governors (June 23, 2017)  
 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file. 
 
21. Information Forwarded to GFC Members Between Meetings 
 
There were no items. 
 
22. Information Items 

 
- GFC Membership 2017-2018 

 
CLOSING SESSION 
 
23. Adjournment  
 
The Acting Chair adjourned the meeting at 4:20 p.m. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


