{
    "Committee": "APC",
    "Date": "2017-03-08",
    "Title": "APC General Faculties Council - 2017-03-08",
    "Location": "2-31 South Academic Building (SAB)",
    "Time": "2:00 PM - 4:00 PM",
    "Attendees": [
        "2:00 PM - 4:00 PM",
        "Steven Dew Chair, Provost and Vice-President (Academic)",
        "Lorne Babiuk Member, Vice-President (Research)",
        "Sarah Ficko Member, President, Graduate Students' Association",
        "Loren Kline Member, Academic Staff-at-large",
        "Gitta Kulczycki Member, Vice-President (Finance and Administration)",
        "Pierre-Yves Mocquais Member, Dean Representative",
        "Roger Moore Member, Academic Staff, Member of GFC",
        "Fahim Rahman Member, President, Students' Union",
        "Pamela Sewers Member, NASA Member-at-large",
        "Eleni Stroulia Member, Academic Staff, Member of GFC",
        "Lisa Collins Member, Vice-Provost and University Registrar",
        "Randy Goebel Vice-Provost and Associate Vice-President (Research) and Chair, Centres",
        "and Institutes Committee",
        "Wendy Rodgers Deputy Provost",
        "Meg Brolley, Coordinator, GFC Academic Planning Committee"
    ],
    "Items": [
        {
            "Item No.": "4",
            "Agenda Title": "Centres and Institutes Committee (CIC), 2015-2016 Annual Report ",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-03-08",
            "Committee": "APC",
            "Proposed By": "Steven Dew, Provost and Vice-President (Academic) ",
            "Presenter": " Randy Goebel, Vice-Provost and Associate Vice-President (Research) and Chair, Centres and Institutes Committee ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) To provide the 2015-2016 Centres and Institutes Committee (CIC) Annual Report for information to the GFC Academic Planning Committee (APC) and the Board Audit Committee in compliance with UAPPOL Procedure as outlined below. The report is also provided to the Board Learning and Discovery Committee for information.  Timeline/Implementation Date n/a Supplementary Notes and context Randy Goebel assumed the Chair of CIC on September 1, 2015. In this role, Dr Goebel has taken up responsibilities with centres and institutes, institutional policies around commercialization, the institutional plan as it pertains to research excellence, and other strategic initiatives. As CIC Chair, Dr Goebel ensures the integrity and maintenance of the University’s rigorous processes for the establishment, operation, termination, oversight and accountability of centres and institutes and maintains close communication with Deans and Vice-Presidents, as well as with Directors responsible for the daily oversight of academic and affiliated centres and institutes at the University of Alberta.   In late 2014, the Faculty of Arts leveraged administrative and technical support (including the research computing and multimedia expertise of Arts Resource Centre) in order to encourage existing and develop new forms of research collaboration, including centres and institutes, in Arts. Oliver Rossier was appointed Senior Officer in charge of this “meta-\nconstruct” – Arts Collaboration Enterprise (ACE) – in January 2015. ACE has been an extremely effective tool for marshalling energy and ideas within the Faculty and within the Faculty’s centres and institutes. Over the last year, Dr Goebel has been actively encouraging other faculties with large numbers of centres and institutes to review and adopt a similar meta-construct.  In the 2015-2016 reporting period, the Centres and Institutes Committee continued to meet on an ad hoc basis as issues requiring the group’s collective and separate areas of expertise were required. This model is favoured by the Committee and functions efficiently and effectively for the Committee and its constituents. Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) Those who have been informed: • Centres and Institutes Committee – January 19, 2017 • Vice-Provosts’ Council – January 23, 2017 • President’s Executive Committee-Operations (PEC-O) – January  <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> 26, 2017 • Board Audit Committee – February 27, 2017 • Board Learning and Discovery Committee – February 27, 2017 • GFC Academic Planning Committee – March 8, 2017 Those who have been consulted: •  Those who are actively participating: •  Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents For the Public Good - University of Alberta Institutional Strategic Plan ENGAGE: GOAL: Engage communities across our campuses, city and region, province, nation and the world to create reciprocal, mutually beneficial learning experiences, research projects, partnerships, and collaborations.    EXCEL: Objective 11: Advance the University of Alberta’s reputation for research excellence by pursuing fundamental and original questions and ideas, pushing the frontiers of knowledge, inspiring creative experimentation, driving innovation, and advancing society. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The Government of Alberta’s Post-Secondary Learning Act gives the Board of Governors the authority to “develop, manage and operate, alone or in co-\noperation with any person or organization, programs, services and facilities for the education or cultural advancement of the people of Alberta” (section 60(1)).  Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) gives General Faculties Council (GFC) responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over \"academic affairs\" (section 26(1)). Section 26(1)(o) provides that GFC may make recommendations to the Board of Governors on a number of matters, including \"the budget\" and \"academic planning.\" GFC has thus established an Academic Planning Committee (GFC APC), as set out below. GFC delegates certain of its powers to the GFC Academic Planning Committee. The complete wording of the section(s) of the PSLA, as referred to above, and any other related sections, should be checked in any instance where formal jurisdiction or delegation needs to be determined. UAPPL Centres and Institutes Policy UAPPOL Academic Centres and Institutes Establishment Procedure […] Section 2: ESTABLISHMENT  “All proposals for establishment of affiliated centres and institutes shall be submitted initially to the Provost and Vice-President (Academic) for assessment. Proposals deemed to be in good order will be forwarded by the proposer(s) to the President’s Executive Committee – Operational http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttps://policiesonline.ualberta.ca/policiesprocedures/policies/centres-and-institutes-policy.pdf\nhttps://policiesonline.ualberta.ca/PoliciesProcedures/Procedures/Academic-Centres-and-Institutes-Establishment-Procedure.pdf\n (PEC-O) for final approval. Proposed affiliated centres and institutes shall not operate prior to receipt of notice of approval. All affiliated centres and institutes operating but not approved by PEC-O shall come into compliance immediately or be considered for closure.” […] Section 3: All proposals for establishment of academic centres and institutes shall be submitted initially to the Provost and Vice-President (Academic) for assessment. Proposals deemed to be in good order will be forwarded by the proposer(s) to the GFC Academic Planning Committee (APC) for final approval. […] The use of the words “Centre” and “Institute” are reserved by GFC, therefore, initiatives shall not use these words in public documentation prior to receipt of notice of approval. All academic centres and institutes operating but not approved by APC shall come into compliance immediately or cease to use the reserved titles of “Centre” or “Institute”. […] UAPPOL Academic Centres and Institutes Operation Procedure […] Section 1. ANNUAL REPORTING  “Affiliated centres and institutes must provide an annual report as outlined within the affiliation agreement. This annual report must be submitted to the Reporting Dean. The Reporting Dean shall review the annual report and will then submit a completed Annual Declaration (see FORMS) to the Executor (signatory) of the affiliation agreement - normally the Vice-President (Academic), or the Vice-President (Research) - for final approval and sign-off. The Executor will submit the Annual Declaration to the Office of the Provost.  […] “The Provost’s Office will provide an annual report to the Board Audit Committee listing all affiliated centres and institutes and dates for review/renewal of agreements.” […] Section 3: PROPOSALS FOR MAJOR CHANGES TO ACADEMIC CENTRES OR INSTITUTES “All proposals for major changes to academic centres and institutes shall be submitted to the Academic Planning Committee (APC) for approval. Where there is a question or dispute regarding whether or not a proposed change to a centre or institute is major, the Provost and Vice-\nPresident (Academic) will make the determination after consulting with the Vice-President (Research) and other appropriate parties.” […] Section 4: ANNUAL REPORTING BY ACADEMIC PLANNING COMMITTEE TO GENERAL FACULTIES COUNCIL “All approvals and re-namings of academic centres and institutes must be included in APC’s annual report to General Faculties Council.” […] UAPPOL Academic Centres and Institutes Termination Procedure:  “Termination of academic centres and institutes shall occur by one of two means:  1. In consultation with the relevant Dean(s), the Provost and Vice-\nhttps://policiesonline.ualberta.ca/PoliciesProcedures/Procedures/Academic-Centres-and-Institutes-Operation-Procedure.pdf\nhttps://policiesonline.ualberta.ca/PoliciesProcedures/Procedures/Academic-Centres-and-Institutes-Termination-Procedure.pdf\n President (Academic) may suspend or terminate the operation of any academic centre or institute at any time. In such cases, the Provost and Vice-President (Academic) must at the earliest opportunity inform the GFC Academic Planning Committee (APC) of the suspension of activity and the reasons for doing so. Prior to the suspension or termination of an academic centre or institute, consideration must be given to the impact this would have on any agreements that have been entered into with third parties.  2. By lack of submission of annual reports to the Reporting Dean for a period of two consecutive years. In such cases, on the recommendation of the Reporting Dean, the Provost and Vice-\nPresident (Academic) shall inform GFC APC of the relevant unit’s failure to report and notice of closure. a. Prior to GFC APC’s consideration of the matter, on the recommendation of the Reporting Dean, or the Provost and Vice-President (Academic), the director of the centre or institute may request a review meeting with the Provost and Vice-President (Academic) to dispute the recommendation. b. Termination plans, prepared by the reporting Dean, must include details of any financial encumbrances, physical resources, effect on teaching or other dissemination obligations. Termination of an academic centre or institute means that the GFC-reserved designations “centre” or “institute” are no longer applied to the academic activities of the participants. c. The termination of an academic centre or institute must be included in GFC APC’s annual report to General Faculties Council.” […]  “Prior to the termination of an affiliated centre or institute, and in accordance with the Affiliated Centres and Institutes(Appendix A) Agreement Requirements, each affiliated centre or institute must:  − notify the University of Alberta that a termination of the centre/institute is being considered;  − notify the University what physical and financial resources will remain following the termination of the affiliated centre or institute, if not already stated within the affiliation agreement;  − follow the obligations as outlined in the affiliation agreement and at law.” […] Board Audit Committee Terms of Reference  3. MANDATE OF THE COMMITTEE  Except as provided in Section 4 hereof and in the Board's General Committee Terms of Reference, the Committee shall monitor, evaluate and make decisions on behalf of the Board with respect to all auditing, financial reporting and internal control functions relating to the University  s) review any published documents containing financial information derived from the financial statements and consider whether the information contained in these documents is consistent with the information contained in the financial statements  Board Learning and Discovery Committee Terms of Reference  (3. Mandate of the Committee): “Except as provided in paragraph 4 hereof and in the Board’s General Committee Terms of Reference, the Committee shall, in accordance with the Committee’s responsibilities with powers granted under the Post-Secondary Learning Act, monitor, evaluate, advise and make decisions on behalf of the Board with respect to matters concerning the teaching and research affairs of the University, including proposals coming from the administration and from General Faculties Council (the “GFC”), and shall consider future educational expectations and challenges to be faced by the University. The Committee shall also include any other matter delegated to the Committee by the Board.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing the Committee shall:  […] j. ensure that the academic teaching and research activities at the University are administered and undertaken in a manner consistent with the vision and mission of the University;  […]. GFC Academic Planning Committee Terms of Reference  (3. Mandate of Committee) “11. Centres and Institutes All proposals for establishment of academic centres and institutes shall be submitted in accordance with University policy and procedure as set out in the University of Alberta Policies and Procedures Online (UAPPOL).” Attachments: 1. Centres and Institutes Committee (CIC) Annual Report 2015-2016 (4 pages) 2. Academic Centres and Institutes – Strategic Review Schedule (as at December 2016) (4 pages) 3. CIC Terms of Reference and Membership (2 pages) 4. Online listing for Approved Centres and Institutes at the University of Alberta (4 pages) (http://faculties.ualberta.ca/centresinstitutes)   ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "Those who have been informed: ",
                "• Centres and Institutes Committee – January 19, 2017 ",
                "• Vice-Provosts’ Council – January 23, 2017 ",
                "• President’s Executive Committee-Operations (PEC-O) – January ",
                " <For further information see ",
                "the link posted on ",
                "the Governance Toolkit section ",
                "Student Participation Protocol> ",
                "26, 2017 ",
                "• Board Audit Committee – February 27, 2017 ",
                "• Board Learning and Discovery Committee – February 27, 2017 ",
                "• GFC Academic Planning Committee – March 8, 2017 ",
                "Those who have been consulted: ",
                "• ",
                "Those who are actively participating: ",
                "• ",
                "Alignment/Compliance ",
                "Alignment with Guiding ",
                "Documents ",
                "For the Public Good - University of Alberta Institutional Strategic Plan ",
                "ENGAGE: GOAL: Engage communities across our campuses, city and ",
                "region, province, nation and the world to create reciprocal, mutually ",
                "beneficial learning experiences, research projects, partnerships, and ",
                "collaborations. ",
                "EXCEL: Objective 11: Advance the University of Alberta’s reputation for ",
                "research excellence by pursuing fundamental and original questions and ",
                "ideas, pushing the frontiers of knowledge, inspiring creative ",
                "experimentation, driving innovation, and advancing society. ",
                "Compliance with Legislation, ",
                "Policy and/or Procedure ",
                "Relevant to the Proposal ",
                "(please quote legislation and ",
                "include identifying section ",
                "numbers) ",
                "Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The Government of ",
                "Alberta’s Post-Secondary Learning Act gives the Board of Governors ",
                "the authority to “develop, manage and operate, alone or in co- ",
                "operation with any person or organization, programs, services and ",
                "facilities for the education or cultural advancement of the people of ",
                "Alberta” (section 60(1)). ",
                "Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The Post-Secondary ",
                "Learning Act (PSLA) gives General Faculties Council (GFC) ",
                "responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over ",
                "\"academic affairs\" (section 26(1)). Section 26(1)(o) provides that GFC ",
                "may make recommendations to the Board of Governors on a number of ",
                "matters, including \"the budget\" and \"academic planning.\" GFC has thus ",
                "established an Academic Planning Committee (GFC APC), as set out ",
                "below. GFC delegates certain of its powers to the GFC Academic ",
                "Planning Committee. The complete wording of the section(s) of the ",
                "PSLA, as referred to above, and any other related sections, should be ",
                "checked in any instance where formal jurisdiction or delegation needs to ",
                "be determined. ",
                "UAPPL Centres and Institutes Policy ",
                "UAPPOL Academic Centres and Institutes Establishment Procedure ",
                "[…] ",
                "Section 2: ESTABLISHMENT ",
                "“All proposals for establishment of affiliated centres and institutes shall ",
                "be submitted initially to the Provost and Vice-President (Academic) for ",
                "assessment. Proposals deemed to be in good order will be forwarded by ",
                "the proposer(s) to the President’s Executive Committee – Operational ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx ",
                "https://policiesonline.ualberta.ca/policiesprocedures/policies/centres-and-institutes-policy.pdf ",
                "https://policiesonline.ualberta.ca/PoliciesProcedures/Procedures/Academic-Centres-and-Institutes-Establishment-Procedure.pdf ",
                " (PEC-O) for final approval. Proposed affiliated centres and institutes ",
                "shall not operate prior to receipt of notice of approval. All affiliated ",
                "centres and institutes operating but not approved by PEC-O shall come ",
                "into compliance immediately or be considered for closure.” ",
                "[…] ",
                "Section 3: All proposals for establishment of academic centres and ",
                "institutes shall be submitted initially to the Provost and Vice-President ",
                "(Academic) for assessment. Proposals deemed to be in good order will ",
                "be forwarded by the proposer(s) to the GFC Academic Planning ",
                "Committee (APC) for final approval. ",
                "[…] ",
                "The use of the words “Centre” and “Institute” are reserved by GFC, ",
                "therefore, initiatives shall not use these words in public documentation ",
                "prior to receipt of notice of approval. All academic centres and institutes ",
                "operating but not approved by APC shall come into compliance ",
                "immediately or cease to use the reserved titles of “Centre” or “Institute”. ",
                "[…] ",
                "UAPPOL Academic Centres and Institutes Operation Procedure ",
                "[…] ",
                "Section 1. ANNUAL REPORTING ",
                "“Affiliated centres and institutes must provide an annual report as ",
                "outlined within the affiliation agreement. This annual report must be ",
                "submitted to the Reporting Dean. The Reporting Dean shall review the ",
                "annual report and will then submit a completed Annual Declaration (see ",
                "FORMS) to the Executor (signatory) of the affiliation agreement - ",
                "normally the Vice-President (Academic), or the Vice-President ",
                "(Research) - for final approval and sign-off. The Executor will submit the ",
                "Annual Declaration to the Office of the Provost. ",
                "[…] ",
                "“The Provost’s Office will provide an annual report to the Board Audit ",
                "Committee listing all affiliated centres and institutes and dates for ",
                "review/renewal of agreements.” ",
                "[…] ",
                "Section 3: PROPOSALS FOR MAJOR CHANGES TO ACADEMIC ",
                "CENTRES OR INSTITUTES ",
                "“All proposals for major changes to academic centres and institutes shall ",
                "be submitted to the Academic Planning Committee (APC) for approval. ",
                "Where there is a question or dispute regarding whether or not a ",
                "proposed change to a centre or institute is major, the Provost and Vice- ",
                "President (Academic) will make the determination after consulting with ",
                "the Vice-President (Research) and other appropriate parties.” ",
                "[…] ",
                "Section 4: ANNUAL REPORTING BY ACADEMIC PLANNING ",
                "COMMITTEE TO GENERAL FACULTIES COUNCIL ",
                "“All approvals and re-namings of academic centres and institutes must ",
                "be included in APC’s annual report to General Faculties Council.” ",
                "[…] ",
                "UAPPOL Academic Centres and Institutes Termination Procedure: ",
                "“Termination of academic centres and institutes shall occur by one of two ",
                "means: ",
                "1. In consultation with the relevant Dean(s), the Provost and Vice- ",
                "https://policiesonline.ualberta.ca/PoliciesProcedures/Procedures/Academic-Centres-and-Institutes-Operation-Procedure.pdf ",
                "https://policiesonline.ualberta.ca/PoliciesProcedures/Procedures/Academic-Centres-and-Institutes-Termination-Procedure.pdf ",
                " President (Academic) may suspend or terminate the operation of ",
                "any academic centre or institute at any time. In such cases, the ",
                "Provost and Vice-President (Academic) must at the earliest ",
                "opportunity inform the GFC Academic Planning Committee (APC) ",
                "of the suspension of activity and the reasons for doing so. Prior to ",
                "the suspension or termination of an academic centre or institute, ",
                "consideration must be given to the impact this would have on any ",
                "agreements that have been entered into with third parties. ",
                "2. By lack of submission of annual reports to the Reporting Dean for ",
                "a period of two consecutive years. In such cases, on the ",
                "recommendation of the Reporting Dean, the Provost and Vice- ",
                "President (Academic) shall inform GFC APC of the relevant unit’s ",
                "failure to report and notice of closure. a. Prior to GFC APC’s ",
                "consideration of the matter, on the recommendation of the ",
                "Reporting Dean, or the Provost and Vice-President (Academic), ",
                "the director of the centre or institute may request a review ",
                "meeting with the Provost and Vice-President (Academic) to ",
                "dispute the recommendation. b. Termination plans, prepared by ",
                "the reporting Dean, must include details of any financial ",
                "encumbrances, physical resources, effect on teaching or other ",
                "dissemination obligations. Termination of an academic centre or ",
                "institute means that the GFC-reserved designations “centre” or ",
                "“institute” are no longer applied to the academic activities of the ",
                "participants. c. The termination of an academic centre or institute ",
                "must be included in GFC APC’s annual report to General ",
                "Faculties Council.” ",
                "[…] ",
                " “Prior to the termination of an affiliated centre or institute, and in ",
                "accordance with the Affiliated Centres and Institutes(Appendix A) ",
                "Agreement Requirements, each affiliated centre or institute must: ",
                "− notify the University of Alberta that a termination of the centre/institute ",
                "is being considered; ",
                "− notify the University what physical and financial resources will remain ",
                "following the termination of the affiliated centre or institute, if not already ",
                "stated within the affiliation agreement; ",
                "− follow the obligations as outlined in the affiliation agreement and at ",
                "law.” ",
                "[…] ",
                "Board Audit Committee Terms of Reference ",
                "3. MANDATE OF THE COMMITTEE ",
                "Except as provided in Section 4 hereof and in the Board's General ",
                "Committee Terms of Reference, the Committee shall monitor, evaluate ",
                "and make decisions on behalf of the Board with respect to all auditing, ",
                "financial reporting and internal control functions relating to the University ",
                "s) review any published documents containing financial information ",
                "derived from the financial statements and consider whether the ",
                "information contained in these documents is consistent with the ",
                "information contained in the financial statements ",
                " Board Learning and Discovery Committee Terms of Reference ",
                "(3. Mandate of the Committee): “Except as provided in paragraph 4 ",
                "hereof and in the Board’s General Committee Terms of Reference, the ",
                "Committee shall, in accordance with the Committee’s responsibilities ",
                "with powers granted under the Post-Secondary Learning Act, monitor, ",
                "evaluate, advise and make decisions on behalf of the Board with respect ",
                "to matters concerning the teaching and research affairs of the University, ",
                "including proposals coming from the administration and from General ",
                "Faculties Council (the “GFC”), and shall consider future educational ",
                "expectations and challenges to be faced by the University. The ",
                "Committee shall also include any other matter delegated to the ",
                "Committee by the Board. ",
                "Without limiting the generality of the foregoing the Committee shall: ",
                "[…] ",
                "j. ensure that the academic teaching and research activities at the ",
                "University are administered and undertaken in a manner consistent with ",
                "the vision and mission of the University; ",
                "[…]. ",
                "GFC Academic Planning Committee Terms of Reference ",
                "(3. Mandate of Committee) ",
                "“11. Centres and Institutes ",
                "All proposals for establishment of academic centres and institutes shall ",
                "be submitted in accordance with University policy and procedure as set ",
                "out in the University of Alberta Policies and Procedures Online ",
                "(UAPPOL).” ",
                "Attachments: ",
                "1. Centres and Institutes Committee (CIC) Annual Report 2015-2016 (4 pages) ",
                "2. Academic Centres and Institutes – Strategic Review Schedule (as at December 2016) (4 pages) ",
                "3. CIC Terms of Reference and Membership (2 pages) ",
                "4. Online listing for Approved Centres and Institutes at the University of Alberta (4 pages) ",
                "(http://faculties.ualberta.ca/centresinstitutes) "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "5",
            "Agenda Title": "Update on Quality Assurance Suite of Activities at the University of Alberta ",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-03-08",
            "Committee": "APC",
            "Proposed By": "Steve Dew, Provost and Vice-President (Academic) ",
            "Presenter": " Wendy Rodgers, Deputy Provost ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) High quality teaching and research programs are a hallmark of the University of Alberta, and the university is committed to a rigorous program of quality assurance (QA) to maintain program and research excellence. The Office of the Provost, in collaboration with the President and Vice-Chancellor and the Vice-Provost and Dean of FGSR, has implemented a new suite of quality assurance activities in 2016-2017 with the Faculties of ALES, Extension, Law, Rehabilitation Medicine and the School of Public Health. The ultimate goal of the Quality Assurance (QA) suite of activities is quality improvement through a rigorous and systematic process which determines strengths, challenges, opportunities, and best practices for each faculty, unit, undergraduate and graduate programs. Timeline/Implementation Date N/A Supplementary Notes and context The final excerpted reports from the Program Reviews and the President’s Visiting Committees will be presented to the Academic Planning Committee in Fall, 2017 Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> Those who have been informed: • Senate Plenary May 6, 2016 Those who have been consulted: • Provost’s Advisory Committee of Deans (PACD) April 13, 2016 • Dean’s Council April 25, 2016 • Joseph Doucet, Dean, Faculty of Business April 20, 2016 • Dean’s Council May 4, 2016 • Bob Haennel, Dean, Faculty of Rehabilitation Medicine June 3, 2016 • Stan Blade, Dean, Faculty of Agriculture, Life and Environmental Science • Stuart Landon, Dennis Kunimoto, John Beamish, Faculties of Arts, Medicine and Dentistry and Science June 22, 2016 • Kue Young, Dean, Faculty of Public Health August 25, 2016 • FGSR Council, September 14, 2016 • Academic Planning Committee, September 14, 2016 • Campus Alberta Quality Council, September 15, 2016 • Katy Campbell, Dean, Faculty of Extension, September 20, 2016 • Lesley Cormack, Dean, Faculty of Arts, September 23, 2016 • Bob Haennel, Dean, Faculty of Rehabilitation Medicine, September 23, 2016 http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\n • Paul Paton, Dean, Faculty of Law,  • Stan Blade, Dean, Faculty of ALES, October 31, 2016 • Kue Young, Dean, School of Public Health, November 15, 2016 Those who are actively participating: • Vice-Provost and Dean, FGSR • Office of the President and Vice-Chancellor • Office of the Provost and Vice-President (Academic) • Strategic Analysis and Data Warehouse Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents For the Public Good GOAL: EXCEL as individuals, and together, sustain a culture that fosters and champions distinction and distinctiveness in teaching, learning, research, and service. Objective: Inspire, model, and support excellence in teaching and learning. Strategy: Develop and implement programs and processes to assure high quality, collegial graduate student and post-doctoral fellow supervision and mentorship. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) “Powers of general faculties council 26(1) Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council is responsible for the academic affairs of the university” 2. GFC Academic Planning Committee Terms of Reference (3 Mandate) “The Academic Planning Committee (APC) is GFC’s senior committee dealing with academic, financial and planning issues. As such, it […] may also ask to consider or recommend to GFC on any academic issue” 3. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) Establishment of Campus Alberta Quality Council  108(1) The Minister may establish the Campus Alberta Quality Council to provide advice and recommendations to the Minister in accordance with section 109 and the regulations.  109  (1) The Campus Alberta Quality Council may inquire into and review any matter relating to a proposal to offer a program of study leading to the granting of an applied, baccalaureate, master’s or doctoral degree other than a degree in divinity. (2) Without restricting the generality of subsection  (2), the Campus Alberta Quality Council may consider  (a) the identified and demonstrated need for the program,  (b) the capacity of the post-secondary institution to deliver and sustain a high quality program,  (c) the impact of the program on the ability of the post-secondary institution to fulfill its approved mandate,  (d) course and program transferability and portability within and outside the Alberta post-secondary system, and  (e) integration of the program within the existing array of similar programs and services across the post-secondary system.   (3) The Campus Alberta Quality Council may exercise the powers and shall perform the duties and functions prescribed in the regulations. 4. Programs of Study Regulation Council’s duty to establish standards and conditions  7 In order to carry out its functions under this Regulation, the Council shall establish the minimum standards and conditions referred to in section 5(1) for institutions and for degree programs. Powers of Council to ensure compliance 8 The Council may, on the referral to it of a matter by the Minister relating to an approved or proposed degree program,  (a) review and monitor a degree program to ensure compliance with the standards and conditions established under section 7,  (b) require a report from the governing body of an institution on any matter relating to an approved or proposed degree program that the institution offers or proposes to offer, and  (c) appoint persons to provide advice and recommendations relating to the review and evaluation by the Council of a degree program under clause (a) or section 5. Recommendation of Council if standards or conditions not met  9 If the Council determines that any of the standards or conditions established under section 7 are no longer being met with respect to an institution or a degree program offered by an institution, the Council  (a) may recommend to the Minister that the Minister cancel the approval of one or more degree programs offered by the institution, and  10 The Minister may cancel the approval of a degree program  (a) on receiving a recommendation of the Council under section 9(a), (b) if the Minister has reason to believe that an institution has discontinued the approved degree program, or (c) if, in the opinion of the Minister, it is necessary to cancel the approval for any other reason. Attachments (each to be numbered 1 - 2) 1. Quality Assurance Suite of Activities 2. Proposed Schedule for Quality Assurance  ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "<For further information see ",
                "the link posted on ",
                "the Governance Toolkit section ",
                "Student Participation Protocol> ",
                "Those who have been informed: ",
                "• Senate Plenary May 6, 2016 ",
                "Those who have been consulted: ",
                "• Provost’s Advisory Committee of Deans (PACD) April 13, 2016 ",
                "• Dean’s Council April 25, 2016 ",
                "• Joseph Doucet, Dean, Faculty of Business April 20, 2016 ",
                "• Dean’s Council May 4, 2016 ",
                "• Bob Haennel, Dean, Faculty of Rehabilitation Medicine June 3, ",
                "2016 ",
                "• Stan Blade, Dean, Faculty of Agriculture, Life and Environmental ",
                "Science ",
                "• Stuart Landon, Dennis Kunimoto, John Beamish, Faculties of ",
                "Arts, Medicine and Dentistry and Science June 22, 2016 ",
                "• Kue Young, Dean, Faculty of Public Health August 25, 2016 ",
                "• FGSR Council, September 14, 2016 ",
                "• Academic Planning Committee, September 14, 2016 ",
                "• Campus Alberta Quality Council, September 15, 2016 ",
                "• Katy Campbell, Dean, Faculty of Extension, September 20, 2016 ",
                "• Lesley Cormack, Dean, Faculty of Arts, September 23, 2016 ",
                "• Bob Haennel, Dean, Faculty of Rehabilitation Medicine, ",
                "September 23, 2016 ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx ",
                " • Paul Paton, Dean, Faculty of Law, ",
                "• Stan Blade, Dean, Faculty of ALES, October 31, 2016 ",
                "• Kue Young, Dean, School of Public Health, November 15, 2016 ",
                "Those who are actively participating: ",
                "• Vice-Provost and Dean, FGSR ",
                "• Office of the President and Vice-Chancellor ",
                "• Office of the Provost and Vice-President (Academic) ",
                "• Strategic Analysis and Data Warehouse ",
                "Alignment/Compliance ",
                "Alignment with Guiding ",
                "Documents ",
                "For the Public Good ",
                "GOAL: EXCEL as individuals, and together, sustain a culture that fosters ",
                "and champions distinction and distinctiveness in teaching, learning, ",
                "research, and service. ",
                "Objective: Inspire, model, and support excellence in teaching and ",
                "learning. ",
                "Strategy: Develop and implement programs and processes to assure ",
                "high quality, collegial graduate student and post-doctoral fellow ",
                "supervision and mentorship. ",
                "Compliance with Legislation, ",
                "Policy and/or Procedure ",
                "Relevant to the Proposal ",
                "(please quote legislation and ",
                "include identifying section ",
                "numbers) ",
                "1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) ",
                "“Powers of general faculties council ",
                "26(1) Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council is ",
                "responsible for the academic affairs of the university” ",
                "2. GFC Academic Planning Committee Terms of Reference (3 ",
                "Mandate) ",
                "“The Academic Planning Committee (APC) is GFC’s senior committee ",
                "dealing with academic, financial and planning issues. As such, it […] ",
                "may also ask to consider or recommend to GFC on any academic issue” ",
                "3. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) ",
                "Establishment of Campus Alberta Quality Council ",
                "108(1) The Minister may establish the Campus Alberta Quality Council to ",
                "provide advice and recommendations to the Minister in accordance with ",
                "section 109 and the regulations. ",
                "109 ",
                "(1) The Campus Alberta Quality Council may inquire into and review any ",
                "matter relating to a proposal to offer a program of study leading to the ",
                "granting of an applied, baccalaureate, master’s or doctoral degree other ",
                "than a degree in divinity. (2) Without restricting the generality of ",
                "subsection ",
                "(2), the Campus Alberta Quality Council may consider ",
                "(a) the identified and demonstrated need for the program, ",
                "(b) the capacity of the post-secondary institution to deliver and sustain a ",
                "high quality program, ",
                "(c) the impact of the program on the ability of the post-secondary ",
                "institution to fulfill its approved mandate, ",
                "(d) course and program transferability and portability within and outside ",
                "the Alberta post-secondary system, and ",
                "(e) integration of the program within the existing array of similar ",
                "programs and services across the post-secondary system. ",
                " (3) The Campus Alberta Quality Council may exercise the powers and ",
                "shall perform the duties and functions prescribed in the regulations. ",
                "4. Programs of Study Regulation ",
                "Council’s duty to establish standards and conditions ",
                "7 In order to carry out its functions under this Regulation, the Council ",
                "shall establish the minimum standards and conditions referred to in ",
                "section 5(1) for institutions and for degree programs. ",
                "Powers of Council to ensure compliance ",
                "8 The Council may, on the referral to it of a matter by the Minister ",
                "relating to an approved or proposed degree program, ",
                "(a) review and monitor a degree program to ensure compliance with the ",
                "standards and conditions established under section 7, ",
                "(b) require a report from the governing body of an institution on any ",
                "matter relating to an approved or proposed degree program that the ",
                "institution offers or proposes to offer, and ",
                "(c) appoint persons to provide advice and recommendations relating to ",
                "the review and evaluation by the Council of a degree program under ",
                "clause (a) or section 5. ",
                "Recommendation of Council if standards or conditions not met ",
                "9 If the Council determines that any of the standards or conditions ",
                "established under section 7 are no longer being met with respect to an ",
                "institution or a degree program offered by an institution, the Council ",
                "(a) may recommend to the Minister that the Minister cancel the approval ",
                "of one or more degree programs offered by the institution, and ",
                "10 The Minister may cancel the approval of a degree program ",
                "(a) on receiving a recommendation of the Council under section 9(a), (b) ",
                "if the Minister has reason to believe that an institution has discontinued ",
                "the approved degree program, or (c) if, in the opinion of the Minister, it is ",
                "necessary to cancel the approval for any other reason. ",
                "Attachments (each to be numbered 1 - 2) ",
                "1. Quality Assurance Suite of Activities ",
                "2. Proposed Schedule for Quality Assurance "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        }
    ],
    "url": "/static/APC/2017-03-08/Past-Meeting-Material.pdf"
}