{
    "Committee": "APC",
    "Date": "2017-10-25",
    "Title": "APC General Faculties Council - 2017-10-25",
    "Location": "2-31 South Academic Building (SAB)",
    "Time": "2:00 PM - 4:00 PM",
    "Attendees": [
        "2:00 PM - 4:00 PM",
        "Steven Dew, Chair",
        "Roger Moore, Vice-Chair",
        "Jason Acker",
        "Benjamin Angus",
        "Marina Banister",
        "Darcy Bemister",
        "Katy Campbell",
        "Susan Hamilton (delegate)",
        "Shannon Erichsen",
        "Florence Glanfield",
        "Christopher Mackay",
        "Jerine Pegg",
        "Babak Soltannia",
        "Eleni Stroulia",
        "Non-voting:",
        "Lisa Collins",
        "Gitta Kulczycki",
        "Sarah Stahlke",
        "Meg Brolley, Coordinator",
        "Marion Haggarty-France,"
    ],
    "Items": [
        {
            "Item No.": "4",
            "Agenda Title": "Proposal for substantive revisions to the curriculum of the Master of Public Health (MPH) in the School of Public Health, Faculty of Graduate Studies & Research ",
            "Motion": " THAT the GFC Academic Planning Committee approve, under delegated authority from General Faculties Council, the proposal for revisions to the curriculum of the Master of Public Health (MPH) in the School of Public Health as proposed by the Faculty of Graduate Studies & Research, and as set forth in Attachment 1, to be effective for admissions to Fall 2018. ",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-10-25",
            "Committee": "APC",
            "Proposed By": "Heather Zwicker, Dean, Faculty of Graduate Studies and Research Kue Young, Dean, School of Public Health ",
            "Presenter": " Jeffrey Johnson, Associate Dean, Education ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) The proposed calendar changes represent a restructuring of the core curricula across all seven of our current MPH degree programs. This involves a replacement of the current common core courses required for all MPH degree programs with a set of newly developed common core courses, and consequent revision of specialization requirements. The total credit requirements for all degrees remain the same. The new common core courses were developed in response to several influences, internal to the School of Public Health, but importantly addressing external considerations. Our current MPH degrees are structured in part as legacies of the historical structural and disciplinary silos in place when the School was formed in 2006, and expectations of our external accrediting body, the US-based Council on Education for Public Health (CEPH). We received 5-year CEPH accreditation in 2012, and are currently pursuing a renewal. Over the past several years, CEPH has engaged in extensive dialogue through the Association of Schools and Programs of Public Health (ASPPH), of which the School of Public Health is a member, about the currency and practice relevance of course-based MPH degrees. As a result of this process, many accredited public health programs have undertaken curriculum renewal with a goal of improving the practice readiness of graduates entering public health fields. Moreover, CEPH has adopted new guidelines that increase flexibility for schools and programs with respect to both specializations and organization of curriculum, with a view to greater integration and generalization. In October 2016, for the first time, CEPH specified MPH Core Competencies.  Coinciding with the CEPH-ASPPH processes, the SPH undertook a comprehensive review of the core curriculum for our MPH degrees. The process was robust, taking almost four years, and involving a large number of SPH faculty, instructors, students, and graduates, as well as employers and practitioners working in public health across sectors. As a result, our revised curricula: • Highlight the unique contributions of the disciplinary traditions of public health; • Emphasize the commonalities that underlie the field and practice of public health; • Facilitate practice readiness – the MPH is a degree for public health practitioners; • Promote interdisciplinary learning and practice; • Reflect the continuing evolution of public health; • Build on the SPH’s connectivity to the systems that affect health. The Impact of the Proposal is These new MPH curricula establish common ground for incoming MPH students from diverse backgrounds, thereby ensuring all students develop a solid understanding of public health as a field. This demanded a shift in the design of our curricula from “Who is the lecturer and what does s/he want students to know?” to “What competencies does the MPH graduate need to perform as an effective public health practitioner?”  The new common core courses involve integration of some of the practice-oriented content contained in the current, disciplinary-focused common core courses. As a consequence of this integration into the new common core, most of the MPH degrees required some changes in the specialization course requirements, either to minimize redundancy, or maintain prerequisites for advanced specialization courses. Our new MPH curricula align with: SPH and CEPH MPH Core Competencies, comprising Knowledge, Attitudes/Values and Skills and SPH’s approved Role & Function statements, which reflect the jobs that MPH graduates will perform. Moreover, we believe our new MPH curricula are forward thinking and innovative, and our integrated interdisciplinary common core will distinguish our MPH degree from others amid burgeoning of MPH programs in Canada. Replaces/Revises (eg, policies, resolutions) Current curricula for the MPH degree programs as found in the 2017-\n2018 Calendar. Timeline/Implementation Date For admissions to Fall 2018 (to be published in the 2018-2019 Calendar) Estimated Cost and funding source No additional resources are required, and no additional fees will be charged to students.  Next Steps (i.e.,: Communications Plan, Implementation plans) In anticipation of Fall 2018 implementation of the approved new curricula: Communication: - Students admitted in or before Fall 2017 were advised to complete the current core courses as soon as possible in the 2017-2018 and 2018-\n2019 academic years.  - The School is posting an announcement on our website for prospective applicants for 2018 admission letting them know that we have completed our MPH core curriculum review and anticipate implementing the new core curricula in Fall 2018. They will be advised to watch for updates; we anticipate that the new curricula will be approved at the time we offer admission in April 2018 to new MPH students starting in the Fall 2018.  Implementation: As we transition between current and new curricula: - All current core courses will be offered in the 2018-2019 academic year. - We are monitoring the need for additional sections of the current core courses to see whether additional sections will be needed for students admitted in or before Fall 2017. Based on current assessment, we have scheduled an additional section of one current core course in Spring 2018.  - An interdisciplinary Teaching Team comprised of senior faculty from our MPH specializations, an SPH Student Association representative, and an Adjunct Professor/Practitioner, has developed a curriculum map that identifies MPH Core Competencies, Learning Goals and Learning Objectives, and indicates where they will be met in the approved new core courses. Our MPH Degree Coordinator is leading this process, and CTL has facilitated some stages of this work. - This team is now considering sequence options for the new core curricula, and starting to develop course syllabi. We anticipate meeting biweekly to design the syllabi as a team, with a target date for completion of the first set of new core course syllabi no later than April 2018, based on the sequence decision noted above. - Courses will be timetabled for Fall 2018-Winter 2019 academic year this fall, considering the sequence decision noted above. - The School has a standard course syllabus template. The School’s Course Approval Subcommittee (CAS), reporting to the Committee on Educational Policies and Procedures (CEPP), reviews and recommends all new course syllabi for adoption. Course descriptions have already been approved; syllabi do not require Faculty Council approval, but syllabi will be provided to both CEPP and Faculty Council for information. - Most specialization courses will remain as is for the 2018-2019 academic year. We expect that specializations will review and revise their courses following experience with the new curricula in its first year of implementation.  Supplementary Notes and context Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> Those who have been informed: • The Degree changes, and each key piece leading to them, were presented at the School’s Town Hall / Faculty Council meetings which are open to the entire SPH community – faculty, students, alumni, and stakeholders. Faculty Council voted on these pieces incrementally, culminating in approval of the new core course descriptions and attendant MPH Degree Requirements.  • SPH Student Association representatives attend all SPH committee meetings, and have a vote on Faculty Council.  • Key dates included: o November 28, 2014: Motion to approve the proposed MPH Graduate Function and Role Statements – APPROVED http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\no April 22, 2016: Motion to approve the Consensus Document on MPH Core Competencies – APPROVED o October 28, 2016: Motion to approve the MPH Common Core Course Titles & Descriptions (Calendar Changes) – APPROVED o June 16, 2017: Motion to approve the 2018-2019 Calendar Changes for MPH Degree Requirements - APPROVED Those who have been consulted: • As noted above, each phase of the MPH core curriculum review involved key stakeholders. Faculty, Adjunct faculty, and students have been involved in all phases throughout the four-year process. • In November 2015, the School hosted a retreat that 33 faculty, adjunct faculty, students and alumni attended. We hired an external facilitator to guide discussion and consultation on the proposed common core curricula and to document feedback.  • Debby Burshtyn, Vice Dean, FGSR • Janice Hurlburt, Graduate Governance and Policy Coordinator • Kate Peters, Portfolio Initiatives Manager, Provost and Vice-\nPresident (Academic) • Tammy Hopper, Vice-Provost/Programs, Provost and Vice-\nPresident (Academic) • Faculty of Agricultural, Life and Environmental Sciences (ALES) (food safety) Those who are actively participating: • Based on the feedback from the above-noted November 2015 retreat, three working groups were formed during Winter 2016 to refine the proposal. These working groups comprised faculty, adjunct faculty, students and alumni from across specializations, and practitioners from a range of public health practice settings who serve as field practicum preceptors and who employ our graduates. • Taken together, 12 students, 5 alumni, 19 faculty, 10 practitioner/adjunct faculty, and 3 SPH practice coordinators participated directly in a working group at some stage of the review. • The MPH Core Curriculum Review Co-Chairs presented the Common Core Curriculum Conceptual Framework CONSENSUS DOCUMENT to the April 22, 2016 Town Hall / Faculty Council meeting for discussion and feedback. Faith Davis, Vice Dean, School of Public Health • Jeffrey Johnson, Assoc Dean (Education) and Director of Grad Studies/Grad Coordinator for the School of Public Health • Ruth Wolfe, MPH Program Coordinator, School of Public Health • Magda Grzeszczuk, Academic Programs Coordinator, School of Public Health Approval Route (Governance) (including meeting dates) School of Public Health Faculty Council, approved June 16, 2017 [FGSR Council approved delegation of changes to graduate program requirements to the Dean of Faculty or Departments in Winter 2013]  GFC ASC Subcommittee on Standards (for consultation) – October 5, 2017 GFC Academic Planning Committee – October 25, 2017 Final Approver GFC Academic Planning Committee Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents Institutional Strategic Plan – For the Public Good GOAL: EXPERIENCE diverse and rewarding learning opportunities that inspire us, nurture our talents, expand our knowledge and skills, and enable our success.  By providing our students with exceptional experiences that link them to their futures, we will facilitate their success both within the curriculum… OBJECTIVE 7: Increase graduate and undergraduate students’ access to and participation in a broad range of curricular experiential learning opportunities that are well-integrated with program goals and enrich their academic experience.  GOAL: EXCEL as individuals, and together, sustain a culture that fosters and champions distinction and distinctiveness in teaching, learning, research, and service.  The foundation of our university rests on a breadth of inquiry… OBJECTIVE 12: Build a portfolio of signature research and teaching areas where the University of Alberta is or will be recognized as a global leader.   Strategy 1: Identify and support established and emerging areas of research and teaching distinction, Strategy 4: Develop processes for identifying both emerging and declining areas of distinction and global leadership to sustain the vibrancy of the university’s portfolio of signature areas. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The PSLA gives GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs (Section 26(1)). 2. PSLA: GFC may make recommendations to the Board of Governors on a number of matters including the budget and academic planning (Section 26(1)(o)). GFC delegates its power to recommend to the Board on the budget and on new or revised academic programs to the GFC Academic Planning Committee (APC). 3. PSLA: The PSLA gives Faculty Councils power to “provide for the admission of students to the faculty” (29(1)(c)). 4. PSLA: The PSLA gives Faculty Councils the authority to “determine the programs of study for which the faculty is established” (Section 29(1)(a)); to “provide for the admission of students to the faculty” (Section 29(1)(c)); and to “determine the conditions under which a student must withdraw from or may continue the student’s program of studies in a faculty” (Section 29(1)(d)). 6. GFC APC’s Terms of Reference (Mandate): GFC delegated the following to GFC APC, the Provost and Vice-President (Academic) and the Dean of FGSR: “Existing Undergraduate and Graduate Programs: - Extension and/or Substantive Revision of Existing Programs - Revisions to or Extension of Existing Degree Designations All proposals for major changes to existing undergraduate and graduate programs (eg, new degree designation, new curriculum) shall be submitted to the Provost and Vice-President (Academic). […] The Provost and Vice-President (Academic), after consultation with relevant Offices, committees or advisors[,] will place the proposal before APC. APC has the final authority to approve such proposals unless, in the opinion of the Provost and Vice-President (Academic), the proposal should be forwarded to GFC with an attendant recommendation from APC. […]” (3.13.) Attachments (each to be numbered 1 - <>) 1.  Attachment 1 (page(s) 1 - 12) Proposed program changes, Master of Public Health ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "<For further information see ",
                "the link posted on ",
                "the Governance Toolkit section ",
                "Student Participation Protocol> ",
                "Those who have been informed: ",
                "• The Degree changes, and each key piece leading to them, were ",
                "presented at the School’s Town Hall / Faculty Council meetings ",
                "which are open to the entire SPH community – faculty, students, ",
                "alumni, and stakeholders. Faculty Council voted on these pieces ",
                "incrementally, culminating in approval of the new core course ",
                "descriptions and attendant MPH Degree Requirements. ",
                "• SPH Student Association representatives attend all SPH ",
                "committee meetings, and have a vote on Faculty Council. ",
                "• Key dates included: ",
                "o November 28, 2014: Motion to approve the proposed ",
                "MPH Graduate Function and Role Statements – ",
                "APPROVED ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx ",
                "o April 22, 2016: Motion to approve the Consensus ",
                "Document on MPH Core Competencies – APPROVED ",
                "o October 28, 2016: Motion to approve the MPH Common ",
                "Core Course Titles & Descriptions (Calendar Changes) – ",
                "APPROVED ",
                "o June 16, 2017: Motion to approve the 2018-2019 ",
                "Calendar Changes for MPH Degree Requirements - ",
                "APPROVED ",
                "Those who have been consulted: ",
                "• As noted above, each phase of the MPH core curriculum review ",
                "involved key stakeholders. Faculty, Adjunct faculty, and students ",
                "have been involved in all phases throughout the four-year ",
                "process. ",
                "• In November 2015, the School hosted a retreat that 33 faculty, ",
                "adjunct faculty, students and alumni attended. We hired an ",
                "external facilitator to guide discussion and consultation on the ",
                "proposed common core curricula and to document feedback. ",
                "• Debby Burshtyn, Vice Dean, FGSR ",
                "• Janice Hurlburt, Graduate Governance and Policy Coordinator ",
                "• Kate Peters, Portfolio Initiatives Manager, Provost and Vice- ",
                "President (Academic) ",
                "• Tammy Hopper, Vice-Provost/Programs, Provost and Vice- ",
                "President (Academic) ",
                "• Faculty of Agricultural, Life and Environmental Sciences (ALES) ",
                "(food safety) ",
                "Those who are actively participating: ",
                "• Based on the feedback from the above-noted November 2015 ",
                "retreat, three working groups were formed during Winter 2016 to ",
                "refine the proposal. These working groups comprised faculty, ",
                "adjunct faculty, students and alumni from across specializations, ",
                "and practitioners from a range of public health practice settings ",
                "who serve as field practicum preceptors and who employ our ",
                "graduates. ",
                "• Taken together, 12 students, 5 alumni, 19 faculty, 10 ",
                "practitioner/adjunct faculty, and 3 SPH practice coordinators ",
                "participated directly in a working group at some stage of the ",
                "review. ",
                "• The MPH Core Curriculum Review Co-Chairs presented the ",
                "Common Core Curriculum Conceptual Framework CONSENSUS ",
                "DOCUMENT to the April 22, 2016 Town Hall / Faculty Council ",
                "meeting for discussion and feedback. ",
                "Faith Davis, Vice Dean, School of Public Health ",
                "• Jeffrey Johnson, Assoc Dean (Education) and Director of Grad ",
                "Studies/Grad Coordinator for the School of Public Health ",
                "• Ruth Wolfe, MPH Program Coordinator, School of Public Health ",
                "• Magda Grzeszczuk, Academic Programs Coordinator, School of ",
                "Public Health "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "School of Public Health Faculty Council, approved June 16, 2017",
                "[FGSR Council approved delegation of changes to graduate program",
                "requirements to the Dean of Faculty or Departments in Winter 2013]",
                "GFC ASC Subcommittee on Standards (for consultation) – October 5,",
                "2017",
                "GFC Academic Planning Committee – October 25, 2017"
            ],
            "Final Approver": " GFC Academic Planning Committee"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "5",
            "Agenda Title": "Proposal for Substantive Changes to the Undergraduate Nursing Curriculum, Faculty of Nursing ",
            "Motion": " THAT the GFC Academic Planning Committee approve, with delegated authority from General Faculties Council, proposed changes to the Undergraduate Nursing Curriculum, as proposed by the Faculty of Nursing, and as set forth in Attachment 1, to take effect Fall 2018. ",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-10-25",
            "Committee": "APC",
            "Proposed By": "Greta Cummings, Dean, Faculty of Nursing ",
            "Presenter": " Greta Cummings, Dean; Olive Yonge, Vice-Dean; Sandra Davidson, Associate Dean (Undergraduate Programs), Faculty of Nursing ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) Gain approval for Undergraduate Nursing program changes, the proposed transition plans (cross-walks), and the associated admissions and academic standing calendar changes for these program changes.  The Impact of the Proposal is The program changes will allow the Faculty of Nursing to deliver an enhanced undergraduate experience to our students.  Specific enhancements that will benefit students include: o Programs are constructed using concept-based teaching &\nlearning approaches, learner-centered education principles,\nrelationship-centered care and intentional clinical learning\nexperiences (deliberate practice)\no Major enhancements in amount and type of leadership courses\n(increasing from 1 leadership course to 4 courses), including a 9\ncredit senior clinical leadership practicum in the 4th year\no Specific focus on developing stress management and resiliency\nthrough the integration of formal evidence-based Mindfulness-\nBased Stress Reduction (MBSR) components and strategies for\nstudent success\no Clearer and closer connections between classroom, lab and\nclinical learning experiences (conceptually and timing of\nexperiences) – based on evidence and best practices\no Integration of a Community Service Learning course early in the\nprogram, and other opportunities to engage in clinical\nexperiences earlier in the programs (starting in 1st semester)\no Purposeful integration of healthcare informatics and technology\nthat reflects current and emerging practice in healthcare\no Inter-professional learning experiences embedded throughout the\nprogram in addition to a leadership course focused on the\napplication of Inter-professional healthcare competencies\no Integration of the Indigenous Health in Canada course – in\nresponse to the TRC recommendations for health disciplines\no Academic standing and admissions policies include a minimum\npass (C+) standard for key foundational courses that will ensure\nstudents have the knowledge necessary for success in higher\nlevel clinical courses\no Additional and enhanced clinical experiences (increased hours of\n1\nclinical practice) as well as the use of a wider range of practice settings that more accurately reflect the current and future practice settings of Registered Nurses o Purposeful engagement with and integration of the programs of\nresearch of our faculty members ~ leveraging our strength as a\ntop ranked research Faculty to enhance our undergraduate\nstudent experience\nStarting Fall of 2018, the Undergraduate Nursing Programs will offer the new courses and a new course sequence for all incoming students.  Because of the significant enhancements and clear student benefits, we have created a proposed cross-walk plan for students who entered our programs in the Fall of 2017 to move into year two of the new programs in the Fall of 2018 so that they can also have the benefits of the program changes for the remainder of their undergraduate education. Replaces/Revises (eg, policies, resolutions) Timeline/Implementation Date Fall 2018 Estimated Cost and funding source N/A Next Steps (ie.: Communications Plan, Implementation plans) A clear and comprehensive communication plan around this change for current students has been developed and is ready to be implemented upon approval of this motion. The communication plan includes face to face sessions for all current 1st year nursing students about the cross-\nwalk, including Q&A in October 2017; arranging for 1:1 meetings between students and the student advisor or the director of undergraduate programs for all students who have additional questions or specific issues (through Oct. and Nov., 2017). We also plan to provide written communication about the details of the program enhancements and the cross-walk plans. A YouTube presentation that summarizes the enhancements and frequently asked questions will be available to all students.  Once we have determined the number of students who may wish to opt-\nout of the cross-walk option, we will provide them with individual program maps and undertake the necessary scheduling and planning to ensure their course sequence can be delivered. We have already met with the RO in terms of planning and implementation of the cross-walk plan.  The majority of courses are a 1:1 replacement (equivalent course content and credits) and in these cases, the calendar provision for course changes applies.  In the case where there is a change in credit weighting and not direct equivalency, we would provide students the choice to opt-out of the new courses and complete the previous course versions (or equivalent)/old sequence. The faculty of nursing will continue with the development of course content, course outlines, schedules and course specific learning activities. Faculty members have been selected to act as development 2\nleads for each new course and we have begun development meetings. Our overall communication plan for informing and engaging with stakeholders (students, faculty, healthcare partners, educational partners and nursing organizations) will also continue to be implemented. Supplementary Notes and context Please refer to background document (appendix A) Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> Those who have been informed: College and Associate of  Registered Nurses of Alberta (CARNA) Nursing Education Consultant, Sandra Young (May 2nd, 2017) Undergraduate Collaborative Program Partner sites (via ongoing updates at all Administrative Council meetings and Undergraduate Collaborative Curriculum Committee meetings from January 2016 – present) Those who have been consulted: Developmental Evaluation Interviews and Focus Group Consultations final total N = 438 Breakdown as follows: External Healthcare Partners: = 41/60 (total invitations sent) Internal Faculty & Staff: n = 65 • Sessional Instructors = 26/85 • Faculty Lecturers = 18/50 • Clinical Assistant Professors = 3/3 • Tenure Track = 12/49 • Support Staff = 4/23 (total invitations sent) • Professor Emeritus = 2/3 (total invitations sent) Student Consultations in Winter 2017 • First year = 19/218 • Second year = 60/173 plus 7 in Honors  • After Degree (AD) students in their first year = 22 • Bilingual students = 7/18 • Collaborative students = 31 • Third year = 72/213 plus 8 in Honors  • Collaborative students = 71 • Collaborative Fast Track student = 1 • Fourth year = 118/143 (8 in Honors)  • Bilingual students = 13/17 • After Degree students = 2 • Red Deer Collab students = 1 • Grand Prairie College students  = 1 • Collaborative students = 98 • Collab student “out of sync” = 1 • In final year but unknown stream = 2 Student Consultations in Spring 2017 •           AD 2nd year Students = 40/70  3\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\n• Bilingual students =2 • RPN to RN =1 Augustana Campus Nursing Program in Fall 2016 • Faculty n = 2 • AD Students n = 19 • RPN to RN Students n = 2 Curriculum Planning Retreats (full days)  Dec. 9, 2016 = 70 faculty attended\n Feb. 24, 2017 = 66 faculty attended – including representatives\nfrom Collaborative Partner sites (Red Deer College, Keyano\nCollege and Grand Prairie Regional College)\nAccrediting Body Consultation  Canadian Association of Schools of Nursing (CASN) (March 13,\n2017 and August 2, 2017)\nThose who are actively participating: Faculty St. Jean/Bilingual Program Coordinator (May 1, 2017) o Review of early/draft plans for Bilingual Program New\nCourses and sequence to determine impact and begin planning. Onsite Undergraduate Curriculum Committee (May 23, 2017) (Overview of new courses in each program presented and discussed) o Curriculum Committee approved these overview plans in\nprinciple. Bilingual Program Curriculum Meeting with FSJ (June 9, 2017) Attendees: Pierre-Yves Mocquais, Denis Fontaine, Paulin Mulatris, Anita Molzahn, Sandra Davidson, Greta Cummings o Reviewed and discussed the new courses and course\nsequence – mutual agreement on this early plan) Faculty of Nursing Caucus (Jun. 13, 2017)  o Overview of new courses in each program sequence\npresented and discussed\nOnsite Undergraduate Curriculum Committee (Jun. 20, 2017) o Reviewed and discussed refinements to courses and\nsequence plans Vice-Provost Academic Programs/Portfolio Initiatives Manager  - Consultation (Aug. 2, 2017) Attendees: Tammy Hopper, Kate Peters, Sandra Davidson, Olive Yonge o Presented and discussed detailed overview of new\ncourses, course sequences and proposed cross-walks from current to new courses for existing year 1 students Bilingual Program Curriculum Committee (Aug. 17, 2017) o BPCC reviewed and recommended minor changes to\n4\ncourse sequence Advanced Education, Post-secondary Programs Manager, Schneider, Laura (Aug. 24, 2017) Attendees: Laura Schneider, Olive Yonge, Sandra Davidson, Kate Peters, Tammy Hopper o Presented new course sequencing and course overviews\nas well as proposed cross-walk plans for consultation and feedback Bilingual Curriculum Planning Meeting (Aug. 29. 2017) Attendees: Claire Tellier, Paulin Mulataris, Denis Fontaine o Reviewed/discussed proposed edits to the new Bilingual\ncourses and course sequencing and implementation issues Onsite Undergraduate Curriculum Committee (Sept. 1, 2017) o Committee approved course descriptions, calendar\nchanges and progression plans for all programs\nASC SOS – Closed Session Consultation (Sept. 7, 2017) Faculty of Nursing Caucus (Special Session) (Sept. 12, 2017) o Caucus endorsed new undergraduate course descriptions\nand course sequence plans and cross-walk plans for all\nundergraduate programs moving forward for approval\nFaculty of Nursing Executive Committee (Sept. 12, 2017) o Executive Committee approved course descriptions,\ncalendar changes and course sequence plans for all\nprograms\nBilingual Leadership Committee (FoN and FSJ) (Sept. 14, 2017) o Reviewed and discussed new bilingual courses and\ncourse sequence plans (as approved by Nursing\nExecutive Committee) and plans to take forward for\napprovals in FSJ\nRO Cross-walk Consultation (Sept. 18, 2017) Attendees: Melissa Padfield, Sandra Davidson, Anna Vocioni, Norma Rodenburg o Discussion and evaluation of proposed cross-walk plan for\nimplementation. Strategies for student communication and\ncreating an opt-out plan for students initiated\nGeneral Faculties Council (GFC) Secretary and Manager of GFC Services (Sept. 27, 2017) Attendees: Meg Brolley, Sandra Davidson, Vanessa Kaiser o Discuss plan and documentation preparation for moving\nthe program changes through the appropriate UofA Governance Committees and approval processes College and Associate of  Registered Nurses of Alberta (CARNA) Nursing Education Consultant, Sandra Young (Sept. 29, 2017)  o Review and discuss the new courses, course sequence,\n5\nproposed clinical hours and determine next steps for communication/vetting as needed with Provincial NEPAB (Nursing Education Program Approval Board) Approval route (Governance) GFC ASC Subcommittee on Standards – October 5, 2017 GFC Academic Standards Committee – October 19, 2017 GFC Academic Planning Committee – October 25, 2017 Final Approver GFC Academic Standards Committee (Admission/Transfer and Academic Standing) GFC Academic Planning Committee  Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents Uof A Values: o We value excellence in teaching, research, and creative activity\nthat enriches learning experiences, advances knowledge,\ninspires engaged citizenship, and promotes the public good.\no We value learners at all stages of life and strive to provide an\nintellectually rewarding educational environment for all.\nFor the Public Good: Goal: Build a diverse, inclusive community of exceptional students, faculty, and staff from Alberta, Canada, and the world.  o Objective1: Build a diverse, inclusive community of exceptional\nundergraduate and graduate students from Edmonton, Alberta,\nCanada, and the world.\no Strategy i: Develop and implement an undergraduate and\ngraduate recruitment strategy to attract top students from\nacross diverse communities in Alberta and Canada,\nleveraging our strengths as a comprehensive research-\nintensive, multi-campus university with options for\nfrancophone and rural liberal arts education.\nGoal: Experience diverse and rewarding learning opportunities that inspire us, nurture our talents, expand our knowledge and skills, and enable our success. o Objective 7: Increase graduate and undergraduate students’ access\nto and participation in a broad range of curricular experiential\nlearning opportunities that are well-integrated with program goals\nand enrich their academic experience.\no Strategy i:  Increase students’ experiential learning through\nmutually beneficial engagement with community, industry,\nprofessional, and government organizations locally,\nnationally, and internationally.\no Objective 9: Enhance, support, and mobilize the unique experiences\nand cultures of all University of Alberta campuses to the benefit of\nthe university as a whole.\no Strategy i: Facilitate and deepen inter-campus connections,\ncommunication, and collaborations with Augustana Campus,\nand ensure that it is strengthened as a leading liberal arts\ncollege, and as a living laboratory for teaching and learning\ninnovation, to the benefit of the entire university.\no Strategy ii: Highlight and strengthen the role that Campus\nSaint-Jean plays in reflecting and reinforcing the linguistic\n6\nduality of Canada as well as the worldwide multi-ethnic Francophonie, by positioning the university locally, nationally, and internationally as a destination of choice for francophone and bilingual students, and by progressively improving Faculté Saint-Jean students’ and applicants’ access to French-language services. Goal: Excel as individuals, and together, sustain a culture that fosters and champions distinction and distinctiveness in teaching, learning, research, and service. o Objective 14: Inspire, model, and support excellence in teaching\nand learning. o Strategy i: Foster, encourage, and support innovation and\nexperimentation in curriculum development, teaching, and\nlearning at the individual, unit, and institutional levels.\nGoal: Engage communities across our campuses, city and region, province, nation, and the world to create reciprocal, mutually beneficial learning experiences, research projects, partnerships, and collaborations. o Objective 16: Enhance, increase, and sustain reciprocal, mutually\nbeneficial community relations, community engagement, and\ncommunity-engaged research and scholarship that will extend\nthe reach, effectiveness, benefit, and value of our university-\ncommunity connections.\no Strategy i: Identify and embrace opportunities to build,\nstrengthen, and extend the University of Alberta’s\nconnections to and engagement with external\nstakeholders, including the general public, neighbouring\ncommunities, ethnic and cultural communities, and other\ncommunities of practice.\nGoal: Sustain our people, our work, and the environment by attracting and stewarding the resources we need to deliver excellence to the benefit of all. o Objective 19: Prioritize and sustain student, faculty, and staff health,\nwellness, and safety by delivering proactive, relevant, responsive,\nand accessible services and initiatives.\no Strategy ii: Bolster resources for and increase access to\nmental health programs that provide support to students,\nfaculty, and staff.\nCompliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The PSLA gives GFC\nresponsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs (Section 26(1)). 2. PSLA: GFC may make recommendations to the Board of Governors\non a number of matters including the budget and academic planning (Section 26(1)(o)). GFC delegates its power to recommend to the Board on the budget and on new or revised academic programs to the GFC Academic Planning Committee (APC). 3. PSLA: The PSLA gives Faculty Councils power to “provide for the\nadmission of students to the faculty” (29(1)(c)). 7\n4. PSLA: The PSLA gives Faculty Councils the authority to “determine\nthe programs of study for which the faculty is established” (Section 29(1)(a)); to “provide for the admission of students to the faculty” (Section 29(1)(c)); and to “determine the conditions under which a student must withdraw from or may continue the student’s program of studies in a faculty” (Section 29(1)(d)). 5. GFC Academic Standards Committee\n“A. Definitions i. Routine and/or Editorial\n[…] the term “routine and/or editorial” refers to proposals which do not involve or affect other Faculties or units; do not form part of a proposal for a new program; and which do not involve alternation of an existing quota or establishment of a new quota. Editorial or routine changes include any and all change to the wording or an admissions or academic standing policy.” “B. Admission and Transfer, Academic Standing, Marking and Grading, Term Work, Examinations, […] i. All proposals from the Faculties or the Administration related to\nadmission and transfer, to the academic standing of students, to institutional marking and grading policies and/or procedures and to term work policies and procedures are submitted to the Provost and Vice-\nPresident (Academic) (or delegate) who chairs the GFC Academic Standards Committee. ASC will consult as necessary with the Faculties and with other individuals and offices in its consideration of these proposals. ii. ASC acts for GFC in approving routine and/or editorial changes to\nboth admission/transfer policies and academic standing regulations” 6. GFC Academic Planning Committee Terms of Reference\n(Mandate): GFC delegated the following to GFC APC, the Provost and Vice-President (Academic) and the Dean of FGSR: “Existing Undergraduate and Graduate Programs: - Extension and/or Substantive Revision of Existing Programs - Revisions to or Extension of Existing Degree Designations All proposals for major changes to existing undergraduate and graduate programs (eg, new degree designation, new curriculum) shall be submitted to the Provost and Vice-President (Academic). […] The Provost and Vice-President (Academic), after consultation with relevant Offices, committees or advisors[,] will place the proposal before APC. APC has the final authority to approve such proposals unless, in the opinion of the Provost and Vice-President (Academic), the proposal should be forwarded to GFC with an attendant recommendation from APC. […]” (3.13.) Attachments (each to be numbered 1 - <>) 1. Attachment 1: Background: Proposed Nursing Undergraduate Program Changes 8\n2. Attachment 2: Proposed Changes to Admission Requirements\n3. Attachment 3: Proposed Changes to Academic Standing\n4. Attachment 4: Proposed After Degree Program Course Sequence\n5. Attachment 5: Proposed Bilingual Program Course Sequence\n6. Attachment 6: Proposed Collaborative Program Course Sequence\n7. Attachment 7: Proposed Honors Program Course Sequence\n8. Attachment 8: Proposed RPN-BScN Program Course Sequence\n",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "<For further information see ",
                "the link posted on the ",
                "Governance Toolkit section ",
                "Student Participation Protocol> ",
                "Those who have been informed: ",
                "College and Associate of  Registered Nurses of Alberta (CARNA) ",
                "Nursing Education Consultant, Sandra Young (May 2nd, 2017) ",
                "Undergraduate Collaborative Program Partner sites (via ongoing ",
                "updates at all Administrative Council meetings and Undergraduate ",
                "Collaborative Curriculum Committee meetings from January 2016 – ",
                "present) ",
                "Those who have been consulted: ",
                "Developmental Evaluation Interviews and Focus Group ",
                "Consultations final total N = 438 ",
                "Breakdown as follows: ",
                "External Healthcare Partners: = 41/60 (total invitations sent) ",
                "Internal Faculty & Staff: n = 65 ",
                "• Sessional Instructors = 26/85 ",
                "• Faculty Lecturers = 18/50 ",
                "• Clinical Assistant Professors = 3/3 ",
                "• Tenure Track = 12/49 ",
                "• Support Staff = 4/23 (total invitations sent) ",
                "• Professor Emeritus = 2/3 (total invitations sent) ",
                "Student Consultations in Winter 2017 ",
                "• First year = 19/218 ",
                "• Second year = 60/173 plus 7 in Honors ",
                "• After Degree (AD) students in their first year = 22 ",
                "• Bilingual students = 7/18 ",
                "• Collaborative students = 31 ",
                "• Third year = 72/213 plus 8 in Honors ",
                "• Collaborative students = 71 ",
                "• Collaborative Fast Track student = 1 ",
                "• Fourth year = 118/143 (8 in Honors) ",
                "• Bilingual students = 13/17 ",
                "• After Degree students = 2 ",
                "• Red Deer Collab students = 1 ",
                "• Grand Prairie College students  = 1 ",
                "• Collaborative students = 98 ",
                "• Collab student “out of sync” = 1 ",
                "• In final year but unknown stream = 2 ",
                "Student Consultations in Spring 2017 ",
                "•           AD 2nd year Students = 40/70 ",
                "3 ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx ",
                "• Bilingual students =2 ",
                "• RPN to RN =1 ",
                "Augustana Campus Nursing Program in Fall 2016 ",
                "• Faculty n = 2 ",
                "• AD Students n = 19 ",
                "• RPN to RN Students n = 2 ",
                "Curriculum Planning Retreats (full days) ",
                " Dec. 9, 2016 = 70 faculty attended ",
                " Feb. 24, 2017 = 66 faculty attended – including representatives ",
                "from Collaborative Partner sites (Red Deer College, Keyano ",
                "College and Grand Prairie Regional College) ",
                "Accrediting Body Consultation ",
                " Canadian Association of Schools of Nursing (CASN) (March 13, ",
                "2017 and August 2, 2017) ",
                "Those who are actively participating: ",
                "Faculty St. Jean/Bilingual Program Coordinator (May 1, 2017) ",
                "o Review of early/draft plans for Bilingual Program New ",
                "Courses and sequence to determine impact and begin ",
                "planning. ",
                "Onsite Undergraduate Curriculum Committee (May 23, 2017) ",
                "(Overview of new courses in each program presented and discussed) ",
                "o Curriculum Committee approved these overview plans in ",
                "principle. ",
                "Bilingual Program Curriculum Meeting with FSJ (June 9, 2017) ",
                "Attendees: Pierre-Yves Mocquais, Denis Fontaine, Paulin Mulatris, Anita ",
                "Molzahn, Sandra Davidson, Greta Cummings ",
                "o Reviewed and discussed the new courses and course ",
                "sequence – mutual agreement on this early plan) ",
                "Faculty of Nursing Caucus (Jun. 13, 2017) ",
                "o Overview of new courses in each program sequence ",
                "presented and discussed ",
                "Onsite Undergraduate Curriculum Committee (Jun. 20, 2017) ",
                "o Reviewed and discussed refinements to courses and ",
                "sequence plans ",
                "Vice-Provost Academic Programs/Portfolio Initiatives Manager  - ",
                "Consultation (Aug. 2, 2017) Attendees: Tammy Hopper, Kate Peters, ",
                "Sandra Davidson, Olive Yonge ",
                "o Presented and discussed detailed overview of new ",
                "courses, course sequences and proposed cross-walks ",
                "from current to new courses for existing year 1 students ",
                "Bilingual Program Curriculum Committee (Aug. 17, 2017) ",
                "o BPCC reviewed and recommended minor changes to ",
                "4 ",
                "course sequence ",
                "Advanced Education, Post-secondary Programs Manager, ",
                "Schneider, Laura (Aug. 24, 2017) Attendees: Laura Schneider, Olive ",
                "Yonge, Sandra Davidson, Kate Peters, Tammy Hopper ",
                "o Presented new course sequencing and course overviews ",
                "as well as proposed cross-walk plans for consultation and ",
                "feedback ",
                "Bilingual Curriculum Planning Meeting (Aug. 29. 2017) Attendees: ",
                "Claire Tellier, Paulin Mulataris, Denis Fontaine ",
                "o Reviewed/discussed proposed edits to the new Bilingual ",
                "courses and course sequencing and implementation ",
                "issues ",
                "Onsite Undergraduate Curriculum Committee (Sept. 1, 2017) ",
                "o Committee approved course descriptions, calendar ",
                "changes and progression plans for all programs ",
                "ASC SOS – Closed Session Consultation (Sept. 7, 2017) ",
                "Faculty of Nursing Caucus (Special Session) (Sept. 12, 2017) ",
                "o Caucus endorsed new undergraduate course descriptions ",
                "and course sequence plans and cross-walk plans for all ",
                "undergraduate programs moving forward for approval ",
                "Faculty of Nursing Executive Committee (Sept. 12, 2017) ",
                "o Executive Committee approved course descriptions, ",
                "calendar changes and course sequence plans for all ",
                "programs ",
                "Bilingual Leadership Committee (FoN and FSJ) (Sept. 14, 2017) ",
                "o Reviewed and discussed new bilingual courses and ",
                "course sequence plans (as approved by Nursing ",
                "Executive Committee) and plans to take forward for ",
                "approvals in FSJ ",
                "RO Cross-walk Consultation (Sept. 18, 2017) Attendees: Melissa ",
                "Padfield, Sandra Davidson, Anna Vocioni, Norma Rodenburg ",
                "o Discussion and evaluation of proposed cross-walk plan for ",
                "implementation. Strategies for student communication and ",
                "creating an opt-out plan for students initiated ",
                "General Faculties Council (GFC) Secretary and Manager of GFC ",
                "Services (Sept. 27, 2017) Attendees: Meg Brolley, Sandra Davidson, ",
                "Vanessa Kaiser ",
                "o Discuss plan and documentation preparation for moving ",
                "the program changes through the appropriate UofA ",
                "Governance Committees and approval processes ",
                "College and Associate of  Registered Nurses of Alberta (CARNA) ",
                "Nursing Education Consultant, Sandra Young (Sept. 29, 2017) ",
                "o Review and discuss the new courses, course sequence, ",
                "5 ",
                "proposed clinical hours and determine next steps for ",
                "communication/vetting as needed with Provincial NEPAB ",
                "(Nursing Education Program Approval Board) ",
                "Approval route (Governance) GFC ASC Subcommittee on Standards – October 5, 2017 ",
                "GFC Academic Standards Committee – October 19, 2017 ",
                "GFC Academic Planning Committee – October 25, 2017 ",
                "Final Approver GFC Academic Standards Committee (Admission/Transfer and ",
                "Academic Standing) ",
                "GFC Academic Planning Committee ",
                "Alignment/Compliance ",
                "Alignment with Guiding ",
                "Documents ",
                "Uof A Values: ",
                "o We value excellence in teaching, research, and creative activity ",
                "that enriches learning experiences, advances knowledge, ",
                "inspires engaged citizenship, and promotes the public good. ",
                "o We value learners at all stages of life and strive to provide an ",
                "intellectually rewarding educational environment for all. ",
                "For the Public Good: ",
                "Goal: Build a diverse, inclusive community of exceptional students, ",
                "faculty, and staff from Alberta, Canada, and the world. ",
                "o Objective1: Build a diverse, inclusive community of exceptional ",
                "undergraduate and graduate students from Edmonton, Alberta, ",
                "Canada, and the world. ",
                "o Strategy i: Develop and implement an undergraduate and ",
                "graduate recruitment strategy to attract top students from ",
                "across diverse communities in Alberta and Canada, ",
                "leveraging our strengths as a comprehensive research- ",
                "intensive, multi-campus university with options for ",
                "francophone and rural liberal arts education. ",
                "Goal: Experience diverse and rewarding learning opportunities that ",
                "inspire us, nurture our talents, expand our knowledge and skills, and ",
                "enable our success. ",
                "o Objective 7: Increase graduate and undergraduate students’ access ",
                "to and participation in a broad range of curricular experiential ",
                "learning opportunities that are well-integrated with program goals ",
                "and enrich their academic experience. ",
                "o Strategy i:  Increase students’ experiential learning through ",
                "mutually beneficial engagement with community, industry, ",
                "professional, and government organizations locally, ",
                "nationally, and internationally. ",
                "o Objective 9: Enhance, support, and mobilize the unique experiences ",
                "and cultures of all University of Alberta campuses to the benefit of ",
                "the university as a whole. ",
                "o Strategy i: Facilitate and deepen inter-campus connections, ",
                "communication, and collaborations with Augustana Campus, ",
                "and ensure that it is strengthened as a leading liberal arts ",
                "college, and as a living laboratory for teaching and learning ",
                "innovation, to the benefit of the entire university. ",
                "o Strategy ii: Highlight and strengthen the role that Campus ",
                "Saint-Jean plays in reflecting and reinforcing the linguistic ",
                "6 ",
                "duality of Canada as well as the worldwide multi-ethnic ",
                "Francophonie, by positioning the university locally, nationally, ",
                "and internationally as a destination of choice for francophone ",
                "and bilingual students, and by progressively improving ",
                "Faculté Saint-Jean students’ and applicants’ access to ",
                "French-language services. ",
                "Goal: Excel as individuals, and together, sustain a culture that fosters ",
                "and champions distinction and distinctiveness in teaching, learning, ",
                "research, and service. ",
                "o Objective 14: Inspire, model, and support excellence in teaching ",
                "and learning. ",
                "o Strategy i: Foster, encourage, and support innovation and ",
                "experimentation in curriculum development, teaching, and ",
                "learning at the individual, unit, and institutional levels. ",
                "Goal: Engage communities across our campuses, city and region, ",
                "province, nation, and the world to create reciprocal, mutually beneficial ",
                "learning experiences, research projects, partnerships, and ",
                "collaborations. ",
                "o Objective 16: Enhance, increase, and sustain reciprocal, mutually ",
                "beneficial community relations, community engagement, and ",
                "community-engaged research and scholarship that will extend ",
                "the reach, effectiveness, benefit, and value of our university- ",
                "community connections. ",
                "o Strategy i: Identify and embrace opportunities to build, ",
                "strengthen, and extend the University of Alberta’s ",
                "connections to and engagement with external ",
                "stakeholders, including the general public, neighbouring ",
                "communities, ethnic and cultural communities, and other ",
                "communities of practice. ",
                "Goal: Sustain our people, our work, and the environment by attracting ",
                "and stewarding the resources we need to deliver excellence to the ",
                "benefit of all. ",
                "o Objective 19: Prioritize and sustain student, faculty, and staff health, ",
                "wellness, and safety by delivering proactive, relevant, responsive, ",
                "and accessible services and initiatives. ",
                "o Strategy ii: Bolster resources for and increase access to ",
                "mental health programs that provide support to students, ",
                "faculty, and staff. ",
                "Compliance with Legislation, ",
                "Policy and/or Procedure ",
                "Relevant to the Proposal ",
                "(please quote legislation and ",
                "include identifying section ",
                "numbers) ",
                "1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The PSLA gives GFC ",
                "responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over ",
                "academic affairs (Section 26(1)). ",
                "2. PSLA: GFC may make recommendations to the Board of Governors ",
                "on a number of matters including the budget and academic planning ",
                "(Section 26(1)(o)). GFC delegates its power to recommend to the Board ",
                "on the budget and on new or revised academic programs to the GFC ",
                "Academic Planning Committee (APC). ",
                "3. PSLA: The PSLA gives Faculty Councils power to “provide for the ",
                "admission of students to the faculty” (29(1)(c)). ",
                "7 ",
                "4. PSLA: The PSLA gives Faculty Councils the authority to “determine ",
                "the programs of study for which the faculty is established” (Section ",
                "29(1)(a)); to “provide for the admission of students to the faculty” ",
                "(Section 29(1)(c)); and to “determine the conditions under which a ",
                "student must withdraw from or may continue the student’s program of ",
                "studies in a faculty” (Section 29(1)(d)). ",
                "5. GFC Academic Standards Committee ",
                "“A. Definitions ",
                "i. Routine and/or Editorial ",
                "[…] the term “routine and/or editorial” refers to proposals which do not ",
                "involve or affect other Faculties or units; do not form part of a proposal ",
                "for a new program; and which do not involve alternation of an existing ",
                "quota or establishment of a new quota. Editorial or routine changes ",
                "include any and all change to the wording or an admissions or academic ",
                "standing policy.” ",
                "“B. Admission and Transfer, Academic Standing, Marking and Grading, ",
                "Term Work, Examinations, […] ",
                "i. All proposals from the Faculties or the Administration related to ",
                "admission and transfer, to the academic standing of students, to ",
                "institutional marking and grading policies and/or procedures and to term ",
                "work policies and procedures are submitted to the Provost and Vice- ",
                "President (Academic) (or delegate) who chairs the GFC Academic ",
                "Standards Committee. ASC will consult as necessary with the Faculties ",
                "and with other individuals and offices in its consideration of these ",
                "proposals. ",
                "ii. ASC acts for GFC in approving routine and/or editorial changes to ",
                "both admission/transfer policies and academic standing regulations” ",
                "6. GFC Academic Planning Committee Terms of Reference ",
                "(Mandate): GFC delegated the following to GFC APC, the Provost and ",
                "Vice-President (Academic) and the Dean of FGSR: ",
                "“Existing Undergraduate and Graduate Programs: ",
                "- Extension and/or Substantive Revision of Existing Programs ",
                "- Revisions to or Extension of Existing Degree Designations ",
                "All proposals for major changes to existing undergraduate and graduate ",
                "programs (eg, new degree designation, new curriculum) shall be ",
                "submitted to the Provost and Vice-President (Academic). ",
                "[…] ",
                "The Provost and Vice-President (Academic), after consultation with ",
                "relevant Offices, committees or advisors[,] will place the proposal before ",
                "APC. APC has the final authority to approve such proposals unless, in ",
                "the opinion of the Provost and Vice-President (Academic), the proposal ",
                "should be forwarded to GFC with an attendant recommendation from ",
                "APC. […]” (3.13.) ",
                "Attachments (each to be numbered 1 - <>) ",
                "1. Attachment 1: Background: Proposed Nursing Undergraduate Program Changes 8 ",
                "2. Attachment 2: Proposed Changes to Admission Requirements ",
                "3. Attachment 3: Proposed Changes to Academic Standing ",
                "4. Attachment 4: Proposed After Degree Program Course Sequence ",
                "5. Attachment 5: Proposed Bilingual Program Course Sequence ",
                "6. Attachment 6: Proposed Collaborative Program Course Sequence ",
                "7. Attachment 7: Proposed Honors Program Course Sequence ",
                "8. Attachment 8: Proposed RPN-BScN Program Course Sequence "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "6",
            "Agenda Title": "Learning Moment: Program Budgets contained in Academic Program Proposals ",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-10-25",
            "Committee": "APC",
            "Proposed By": "Tammy Hopper, Vice-Provost (Programs) ",
            "Presenter": " Chad Schulz, Director, Integrated Finance Services; Edith Finczak, Director, Academic Budget & Planning ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) To brief the Academic Planning Committee on how program budgets are being drafted to satisfy the requirements of the Ministry of Advanced Education for proposed degree, certificate and diploma programs. Timeline/Implementation Date N/A Supplementary Notes and context Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> Those who have been informed:  Those who have been consulted:  Associate Deans\nThose who are actively participating:  Office of the Provost and Vice-President (Academic)\n Integrated Finance Services\nAlignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents For the Public Good  Objective 21: Encourage continuous improvement in administrative, governance, planning and stewardship systems, procedures, and policies that enable students, faculty, staff, and the institutions as a whole to achieve shared strategic goals. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA)\n “Powers of general faculties council”  26(1)Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council is responsible for the academic affairs of the university” 2. GFC Academic Planning Committee Terms of Reference\nThe Academic Planning Committee (APC) is GFC's senior committee\ndealing with academic, financial and planning issues.\n8. Establishment/Termination of Academic Programs\na. To approve the establishment of new academic programs at the\nUniversity of Alberta or those administered in cooperation with\nother post-secondary institutions.\n13. Existing Undergraduate and Graduate Academic Programs: -\nExtension and/or Substantive Revision of Existing Programs\n1\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\n- Revisions to or Extension of Existing Degree Designations All proposals for major changes to existing undergraduate and graduate programs (eg, new degree designation, new curriculum) shall be submitted to the Provost and Vice-President (Academic). (Minor program changes are circulated for challenge to interested parties as set out in Section 37 of this Manual.) In cases where it is not clear if a change is major or minor, the Vice-President (Academic) will decide. The Provost and Vice-President (Academic), after consultation with relevant Offices, committees or advisers will place the proposal before APC. APC has the final authority to approve such proposals unless, in the opinion of the Vice-President (Academic), the proposal should be forwarded to GFC with an attendant recommendation from APC. The Provost and Vice-\nPresident (Academic) may seek the advice of FDC on space-related matters inherent to the proposal prior to its consideration by APC. Attachments (each to be numbered 1 - 2) 1. Program Budget – History of Art, Design and Visual Culture\n2. Program Budget – Fashion Business Management\n",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "<For further information see ",
                "the link posted on the ",
                "Governance Toolkit section ",
                "Student Participation Protocol> ",
                "Those who have been informed: ",
                " ",
                "Those who have been consulted: ",
                " Associate Deans ",
                "Those who are actively participating: ",
                " Office of the Provost and Vice-President (Academic) ",
                " Integrated Finance Services ",
                "Alignment/Compliance ",
                "Alignment with Guiding ",
                "Documents ",
                "For the Public Good ",
                "Objective 21: Encourage continuous improvement in administrative, ",
                "governance, planning and stewardship systems, procedures, and ",
                "policies that enable students, faculty, staff, and the institutions as a ",
                "whole to achieve shared strategic goals. ",
                "Compliance with Legislation, ",
                "Policy and/or Procedure ",
                "Relevant to the Proposal ",
                "(please quote legislation and ",
                "include identifying section ",
                "numbers) ",
                "1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) ",
                " “Powers of general faculties council” ",
                "26(1)Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council ",
                "is responsible for the academic affairs of the university” ",
                "2. GFC Academic Planning Committee Terms of Reference ",
                "The Academic Planning Committee (APC) is GFC's senior committee ",
                "dealing with academic, financial and planning issues. ",
                "8. Establishment/Termination of Academic Programs ",
                "a. To approve the establishment of new academic programs at the ",
                "University of Alberta or those administered in cooperation with ",
                "other post-secondary institutions. ",
                "13. Existing Undergraduate and Graduate Academic Programs: - ",
                "Extension and/or Substantive Revision of Existing Programs ",
                "1 ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx ",
                "- Revisions to or Extension of Existing Degree Designations ",
                "All proposals for major changes to existing undergraduate and ",
                "graduate programs (eg, new degree designation, new curriculum) ",
                "shall be submitted to the Provost and Vice-President (Academic). ",
                "(Minor program changes are circulated for challenge to interested ",
                "parties as set out in Section 37 of this Manual.) In cases where it is ",
                "not clear if a change is major or minor, the Vice-President ",
                "(Academic) will decide. The Provost and Vice-President (Academic), ",
                "after consultation with relevant Offices, committees or advisers will ",
                "place the proposal before APC. APC has the final authority to ",
                "approve such proposals unless, in the opinion of the Vice-President ",
                "(Academic), the proposal should be forwarded to GFC with an ",
                "attendant recommendation from APC. The Provost and Vice- ",
                "President (Academic) may seek the advice of FDC on space-related ",
                "matters inherent to the proposal prior to its consideration by APC. ",
                "Attachments (each to be numbered 1 - 2) ",
                "1. Program Budget – History of Art, Design and Visual Culture ",
                "2. Program Budget – Fashion Business Management "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        }
    ],
    "url": "/static/APC/2017-10-25/Past-Meeting-Material.pdf"
}