{
    "Committee": "ASC",
    "Date": "Thursday, March 17, 2016 \n",
    "Title": "ASC General Faculties Council - 2016-03-17",
    "Location": "2-31 South Academic Building (SAB)",
    "Time": "9:00 AM - 12:00 PM",
    "Attendees": [
        "9:00 AM - 12:00 PM",
        "Nataraj (Nat) Kav Chair (Delegate), Provost and Vice-President (Academic)",
        "Janice Causgrove Dunn Vice-Chair, Dean or Delegate (Associate Dean, Undergraduate)",
        "Fraser Brenneis Member (Delegate), Dean, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry",
        "Dion Brocks Member (Delegate), Dean, Faculty of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical",
        "Sciences",
        "Faith Davis Member (Delegate), Dean, School of Public Health",
        "Fay Fletcher Member (Delegate), Dean, Faculty of Extension",
        "Elaine Geddes Member (Delegate), Dean, Alberta School of Business",
        "Clive Hickson Member (Delegate), Dean, Faculty of Education",
        "Scott Jeffrey Member (Delegate), Dean or Delegate, Agricultural Life and Environmental",
        "Sciences",
        "Brenda Leskiw Member (Delegate), Dean, Faculty of Science",
        "Karsten Mundel Member (Delegate), Dean, Augustana Faculty",
        "Rebecca Nagel Member (Delegate), Dean, Faculty of Arts",
        "Carla Peck Member, Academic Staff",
        "Fahim Rahman Member, Vice-President (Academic), Students' Union",
        "Carolyn Ross Member (Delegate), Dean, Faculty of Nursing",
        "Natalie Sharpe Member, Director of Student OmbudService",
        "Sam Stowe Member (Delegate), Vice-Provost and University Registrar",
        "Harsh Thaker Member, Graduate Students' Association Vice-President (Academic), V-P",
        "Academic (GSA)",
        "Kasia Tymczak Member, Undergraduate Student at-Large (Elected by GFC)",
        "Nataraj (Nat) Kav Vice-Provost (Academic Programs and Instruction) and Chair, GFC Academic",
        "Standards Committee (ASC)",
        "Wade King Safe Disclosure and Human Rights Advisor",
        "Amy Dambrowitz Strategic Development Manager, Office of the Provost and Vice-President",
        "(Academic)",
        "Heather Zwicker Interim Vice-Provost and Dean, Faculty of Graduate Studies and",
        "Research (FGSR)",
        "Karsten Mundel Associate Dean, Academic, Augustana Faculty",
        "Kate Peters Portfolio Initiatives Manager, Office of the Provost and Vice-President",
        "(Academic)",
        "Anne Bailey Director, Internal Communications, University Relations",
        "Meg Brolley, Coordinator, GFC Academic Standards Committee",
        "Andrea Patrick, Scribe"
    ],
    "Items": [
        {
            "Item No.": "6",
            "Agenda Title": "Annual Report on Graduate Enrolment 2015/16 ",
            "Date": "2016-03-17",
            "Committee": "ASC",
            "Proposed By": "Heather Zwicker, Interim Vice-Provost and Dean, FGSR ",
            "Presenter": "s Heather Zwicker, Interim Vice-Provost and Dean, FGSR Subject Discussion of the report on graduate enrolment ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) To discuss the 2015/16 report on graduate enrolment. The Impact of the Proposal is Provides the institution with graduate enrolment information for awareness and to aid in future planning.  Replaces/Revises (e.g., policies, resolutions) N/A Timeline/Implementation Date N/A  Estimated Cost N/A Sources of Funding N/A Notes This is the first graduate enrolment report produced for the UAlberta community, and it is my proposal that this be produced annually. Discussion and suggestions that pertain not just to this document but to an annual document of this type would be particularly welcome. Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents Dare to Discover Values:  • Create a dynamic, discovery-based learning environment by aiming for a mix of undergraduate and graduate students typical of leading public research universities.  • Enhance the global perspective and intercultural climate at the university by celebrating and drawing upon the diversity within it.  • Build strong partnerships with the capital region, the cities of Edmonton and Camrose, other urban and rural Alberta communities, and all orders of government to fulfil our responsibility as Alberta's university, a leader on the national stage with global connections.  • Enhance relationships with other nations to create learning opportunities for students and research collaborations to address global challenges and initiatives that foster mutual understanding, global peace, and prosperity.  • Engage with, serve, and draw strength from the diversity of our external communities, in particular Aboriginal, Franco-Albertan, multicultural, rural, and northern communities.  • Promote administrative effectiveness and good governance by improving communication among units, enhancing collaboration, implementing transformative ideas, and revising organizational structures. Compliance with Legislation, 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The PSLA gives GFC Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs. Further, the PSLA gives the Board of Governors authority over certain admission requirements and rules respecting enrolment. The Board has delegated its authority over admissions requirements and rules respecting enrolment to GFC and the GFC ASC. (Sections 26(1), 60(1)(c) and (d)). 2. General Faculties Council (GFC) Terms of Reference (Section 3/ Mandate):  “[…]  The issues which remain with GFC or which would be referred by a Standing Committee to GFC would generally be in the nature of the following:  • high level strategic and stewardship policy issues or matters of significant risk to the University;[…]” GFC has powers under the PSLA to  “make recommendations to the board with respect to affiliation with other institutions, academic planning, campus planning, a building program, the budget, the regulation of residences and dining halls, procedures in respect of appointments, promotions, salaries, tenure and dismissals, and any other matters considered by the general faculties council to be of interest to the university […][PSLA Section 26(1)(o)]” and to “determine standards and policies respective the admission of persons to the university as students[.][PSLA Section 26(1)(n)]”  3.  GFC Executive Committee Terms of Reference/3. Mandate of the Committee: “To act as the executive body of General Faculties Council and, in general, carry out the functions delegated to it by General Faculties Council. (GFC 08 SEP 1966) (GFC 12 FEB 1996) 4. GFC Executive Committee Terms of Reference, Section 3.5, states: “Agendas of General Faculties Council  GFC has delegated to the Executive Committee the authority to decide which items are placed on a GFC Agenda, and the order in which those agenda items appear on each GFC agenda.  When ordering items, the GFC Executive Committee will be mindful of any matters that are of particular concern to students during March and April so that the student leaders who bring those items forward are able to address these items at GFC before their terms end. (EXEC 06 NOV 2006)  When recommendations are forwarded to General Faculties Council from APC, the role of the Executive shall be to decide the order in which items should be considered by GFC. The Executive Committee is responsible for providing general advice to the Chair about proposals being forwarded from APC to GFC.  With respect to recommendations from other bodies and other GFC committees, however, the role of the Executive Committee shall be to examine and debate the substance of reports or recommendations and to decide if an item is ready to be forwarded to the full governing body. The Executive Committee may decide to refer a proposal back to the originating body, to refer the proposal to another body or individual for study or review, or to take other action in order to ready a proposal for consideration by General Faculties Council. When the GFC Executive Committee forwards a proposal to GFC, it shall make a recommendation that GFC endorse; endorse with suggested amendments; not endorse; or forward the proposal with no comment. (GFC 30 JUN 1992)” 5. Board Learning and Discovery Committee Terms of Reference (Section 3/Mandate):  “Except as provided in paragraph 4 hereof and in the Board’s General Committee Terms of Reference, the Committee shall, in accordance with the Committee’s responsibilities with powers granted under the Post-Secondary Learning Act, monitor, evaluate, advise and make decisions on behalf of the Board with respect to matters concerning the teaching and research affairs of the University, including proposals coming from the administration and from General Faculties Council (the “GFC”), and shall consider future educational expectations and challenges to be faced by the University. The Committee shall also include any other matter delegated to the Committee by the Board.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing the Committee shall:  a. receive and approve initiatives related to the overall academic mission and related plans and policies of the University; […] d.  review and approve the establishment, modification and removal  of enrolment quotas and annually review such quotas[.][…]”  6. GFC Academic Planning Committee Terms of Reference (Section 3 Mandate):  “APC is responsible for making recommendations to GFC and/or to the Board of Governors concerning policy matters and action matters with respect to the following: […] 3. Enrollment and Planning a. To recommend to GFC on University-wise enrolment targets for undergraduate and graduate students.  b. To recommend to GFC on enrollment management processes, including the establishment of new quotas for individual Faculties and programs. […]”  Routing (Include meeting dates) Consultative Route (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) Graduate Education Funding Advisory Committee (GEFAC) – 14 Jan 2016 Vice Provosts Council – 18 Jan 2016 Faculty of Graduate Studies & Research Council – 20 Jan 2016 Deans’ Council – 20 Jan 2016 President’s Advisory Committee of Chairs – 16 Feb 2016 President’s Executive Committee - Operations – 18 Feb 2016 Academic Planning Committee -  24 Feb 2016 Academic Standards Committee – 17 Mar 2016 GFC Executive Committee – 11 April 2016 Board Learning and Discovery Committee – 25 April 2016 Board of Governors – 13 May 2016 General Faculties Council – 30 May 2016 Approval Route (Governance) (including meeting dates) N/A Final Approver N/A Attachments (each to be numbered 1 - 23): 1.    Attachment 1 (pages 1-23) - Annual Report on Graduate Enrolment 2015/16 ",
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": " N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "7",
            "Agenda Title": "Proposal for a new Scheduling Initiative for Augustana Faculty ",
            "Date": "2016-03-17",
            "Committee": "ASC",
            "Proposed By": "Dr. Allen Berger, Dean, Augustana Faculty ",
            "Presenter": " Dr. Karsten Mündel, Associate Dean, Academic, Augustana Faculty Subject New Scheduling Initiative for Augustana Faculty ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) As a residential, undergraduate, liberal arts and science faculty within the University of Alberta, the Augustana Campus places a special value on community-based education, international and outdoor educational experiences, undergraduate research and connections to rural and Aboriginal communities. In this context, the proposed new framework serves a dual-purpose vision: 1) to provide a rhythm for each academic year that advances experiential learning opportunities for students, connections between these opportunities and more traditional classroom work, and pedagogical innovation by faculty; 2) to create a clearer niche for Augustana and further differentiate the undergraduate student experience at Augustana from alternatives on North Campus or at other Alberta universities. The Impact of the Proposal is Apart from the above, the proposed Augustana Scheduling Initiative could potentially address:  -student workload issues: particularly important for student mental health challenges that are increasingly recognized as critical;  -faculty workload issues: particularly the need to accommodate research expectations in a predominantly teaching Faculty;  -greater flexibility in degree completion times: especially with the opportunity to complete a *3 course in September or January;  -development of a first-year seminar: understood across North America to be a “high-impact practice”, this mandatory “First Year Experience” course (proposed as AUIDS 101) will be a small seminar-\nstyle course for new students beginning studies at Augustana Faculty in the September or January 3-weeks course period;  -provide opportunities for first and second-year students to ‘sample’ courses: the 3-week course period means students commit less time to an interest that may or may not result in a change of major or minor, and give a ‘short-term’ opportunity to explore other subject areas;  -ability to accommodate students’ varying learning styles: this comes with the flexibility to present different learning methods within a 3 or 11 week course, as well as potentially over two or more of these components in the academic schedule;  Replaces/Revises (eg, policies, resolutions) University Calendar 52.2, 52.3, 52.4, 55.4. Timeline/Implementation Date September 2017 Estimated Cost N/A Sources of Funding Existing resources.  There are no additional costs associated with the move to the 3-week/11-week calendar. A full load for students will continue to be 15 credits in the standard University of Alberta Fall term and 15 credits in the Winter term. Notes On May 4, 2015, Augustana Faculty Council passed the following motion: “THAT the Augustana Faculty implement, effective 2017-18, a new academic schedule with the Fall and Winter semesters each consisting of a 3-week term followed by an 11-week term and adopt a new timetable for the 11-week terms…and investigate the feasibility of an additional 3-week block term in the spring.” Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents Aligns with Dare to Deliver; Dare to Discover values:  -enrich the student experience; foster a collegial learning culture; promote interdisciplinary collaboration, enhancing opportunities to develop undergraduate inquiry and research skills; create learning opportunities for students and creative collaborations to address global challenges and initiatives; provide an intellectually superior educational environment for students; diverse, yet inclusive, dynamic collegial community that welcomes change. Aligns with Comprehensive Institutional Plan strategies, such as: -provide foundational support structures for students to create positive student experiences and engagement; ensure a high level of teaching quality; support programs and initiatives to help increase retention and completion rates; provide enhanced experiential learning opportunities; continue to create international opportunities for students; provide foundational support structures for students in order to create a nurturing environment that allows for positive student experience and engagement; continue development of innovative programming to meet the needs of students and the community; increase interdisciplinary, collaborative program and initiative development in order to offer students innovative and relevant educational opportunities. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): GFC is responsible, generally, for the academic affairs of the University and specifically, for the Academic Schedule of the University (Sections 26(1), 26(1)(d)(e)(g) and (j) (Powers of General Faculties Council)).  2. GFC Executive Committee Terms of Reference (3. Mandate of the Committee:  “4. Academic Schedule  a. Delegation  Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) Section 26(l)(j) follows:  26(1) Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council is responsible for the academic affairs of the university and, without restricting the generality of the foregoing, has the authority to…  (j) determine the date for the beginning and end of lectures in the university and also the beginning and end of each university term…. b. Academic Schedule Changes The GFC Executive Committee has delegated authority from General Faculties Council to approve the Academic Schedule. Any changes to the Academic Schedule proposed after the Schedule has been approved must be submitted to the Executive Committee. That committee will determine which changes are sufficiently substantial and require, therefore, GFC approval and which ones are routine in nature and could be dealt with by the Executive Committee.” 3. UAPPOL Academic Schedule Policy states: “[…] 2. ACADEMIC SCHEDULE DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY The authority to determine the Academic Schedule is the responsibility of the GFC Executive Committee, as delegated to that body by General Faculties Council. The Registrar recommends on the Academic Schedule to the GFC Executive Committee.” 4. UAPPOL Academic Schedule Procedure states: “Each spring, the Exams and Timetabling Division in the Office of the Registrar will begin drafting the Academic Schedule for the following year[…]. Two drafts will be sent out to a distribution list that includes the President, Vice-Presidents and senior administrators, Deans, Assistant and Associate Deans, Directors and other stakeholders for feedback and suggested changes. The final draft of the Academic Schedule will be sent to the GFC Executive Committee no later than mid-October for approval. After the Academic Schedule has been approved, it will be published in the University Calendar.” 5. GFC Committee on the Learning Environment Terms of Reference (3. Mandate of the Committee) “The Committee on the Learning Environment is responsible for making recommendations concerning policy matters and action matters with respect to the following: […] e) To nurture the development of innovative and creative learning services and teaching practices. f) To encourage the sharing and discussion of evidence about effective teaching, learning, and learning services. g) To promote critical reflection on the impact of broad societal changes in teaching, learning, and the learning environment. h) To promote projects with relevant internal and external bodies that offer unique teaching and learning opportunities that would benefit the university community. i) To consider any matter deemed by the GFC Committee on the Learning Environment to be within the purview of its general responsibility. 6. GFC Academic Standards Committee Subcommittee on Standards Terms of Reference (3. Mandate of the Committee) “To review and make recommendations to the GFC Academic Standards Committee (ASC) with respect to a number of issues which affect all students at the University of Alberta. These include, but are not limited to: a. examination policy b. academic definitions c. academic standing regulations d. admission/transfer requirement” 7. GFC Academic Standards Committee Terms of Reference (3. Mandate of the Committee) “The ASC is responsible for making recommendations and/or for providing advice to GFC, its Executive Committee, and/or the GFC Academic Planning Committee (APC) on the matters set out below, which include such areas as admission and transfer, including admission and transfer to Faculties, admission of Open Studies students, academic standing policies and general university admission policies, and all institutional marking and grading policies and/or procedures.” […] Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) • Those who have been informed • Those who have been consulted • Those who are actively participating Augustana Fine Arts and Humanities, Science, and Social Sciences Department meetings – extensive consultation January-April 2015 (all departments include student representatives). Augustana Faculty Council – regular discussion in monthly meetings prior to formal approval in May 2015. Provost’s office – consultations and discussion Dean’s Council – discussion, January 19, 2016 SU President & VP-Academic – discussion, January 2016. Phyllis Clark’s Senior Executive Team – discussion, January 2016 AASUA – discussion, January 12, 2016 GFC Committee on the Learning Environment – discussion March 2, 2016 GFC Academic Standards Committee-Subcommittee on Standards – discussion March 3, 2016 GFC Academic Standards Committee – discussion March 17, 2016 GFC Executive Committee – discussion April 11, 2016 Approval Route (Governance) (including meeting dates) N/A Final Approver N/A Attachments (each to be numbered 1 - 3) 1.  Attachment 1: Augustana Faculty 3-11 Calendar Information Document (pages 1 - 10) 2.  Attachment 2: Proposed Augustana 3-11 Calendar Revisions (pages 1 - 4)  3.  Attachment 3: Draft table of standard U of A 2017-18 Academic Schedule compared to proposed      Augustana Block and Session Academic Schedule.  ",
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": " N/A"
        }
    ],
    "PDF url": "ASC_Thursday, March 17, 2016 \n_Material.pdf"
}