{
    "Committee": "ASC",
    "Date": "Thursday, June 16, 2016 \n",
    "Title": "ASC General Faculties Council - 2016-06-16",
    "Location": "2-31 South Academic Building (SAB)",
    "Time": "9:00 AM - 12:00 PM",
    "Attendees": [
        "9:00 AM - 12:00 PM",
        "Nataraj (Nat) Kav Chair (Delegate), Provost and Vice-President (Academic)",
        "Dion Brocks Member (Delegate), Dean, Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences",
        "Deborah Burshtyn Member (Delegate), Dean, Graduate Studies and Research",
        "Yvette d’Entremont Member (Delegate), Dean, Faculté Saint-Jean",
        "Scott Jeffrey Member (Delegate), Dean, Agricultural, Life and Environmental Sciences",
        "Clive Hickson Member (Delegate), Dean, Education",
        "Fay Fletcher Member (Delegate), Dean, Extension",
        "Brenda Leskiw Member (Delegate), Dean, Science",
        "Rebecca Nagel Member (Delegate), Dean, Arts",
        "Carla Peck Member, Academic Staff",
        "Marina Banister Member, Vice-President (Academic), Students' Union",
        "Carolyn Ross Member (Delegate), Dean, Nursing",
        "Natalie Sharpe Member, Director of the Student Ombudservice",
        "Sam Stowe Member, (Delegate), Vice-Provost and University Registrar",
        "Firouz Khodayari Member, Vice-President (Academic), Graduate Students' Association",
        "Kasia Tymczak Member, Undergraduate Student at-Large",
        "Nataraj (Nat) Kav Vice-Provost (Programs) and Chair, GFC Academic Standards",
        "Committee",
        "Deborah Burshtyn Associate Dean, Faculty of Graduate Studies and Research",
        "Dean Zaragoza Executive Director, Health Sciences Council",
        "Kate Peters Portfolio Initiatives Manager, Office of the Provost and Vice-President",
        "(Academic)"
    ],
    "Items": [
        {
            "Item No.": "5",
            "Agenda Title": "Proposed Changes to the University Bloodborne Pathogens Policy in the University Calendar ",
            "Date": "2016-06-16",
            "Committee": "ASC",
            "Proposed By": "Lisa Collins, Vice-Provost and University Registrar; Dean Zaragoza, Executive Director, Health Sciences Council ",
            "Presenter": " Dean Zaragoza, Executive Director, Health Sciences Council Subject Proposed Changes to the University Bloodborne Pathogens Policy in the University Calendar ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) The Health Science Council has been working with University Health Centre, Office of Emergency Management, Alberta Health Services, and all Health Sciences Faculties on developing a consolidated medical testing /immunization requirement calendar section to replace the individual faculty calendar sections.   The University of Alberta’s on bloodborne pathogens is designed to align with Alberta Health Services immunization standards and to limit the possibility of transmission of bloodborne pathogens within the educational setting. The Impact of the Proposal is To revise the University Bloodborne Pathogens Policy to align with current practice in infection control and prevention of bloodborne pathogens.  Changes include clarification of student responsibilities with regards to medical testing and immunization for the Faculties of Agricultural, Life and Environmental Sciences (Dietetic Interns) Medicine and Dentistry (Medicine, Dentistry, Dental Hygiene, Medical Laboratory Science, Radiation Therapy), Nursing, Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Physical Education and Recreation, and Rehabilitation Medicine (Occupational Therapy, Physiotherapy, Speech Language Pathology). Replaces/Revises (eg, policies, resolutions) University Bloodborne Pathogens Policy of the University Calendar Timeline/Implementation Date 2017-2018 Estimated Cost N/A Sources of Funding N/A Notes  Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents Institutional Strategic Plan: For the Public Good SUSTAIN GOAL: Sustain our people, our work, and the environment by attracting and stewarding the resources we need to deliver excellence to the benefit of all Albertans. 19. OBJECTIVE: Prioritize and sustain student, faculty, and staff health, wellness, and safety by delivering proactive, relevant, responsive, and accessible services and initiatives. iii. Strategy: Endorse a strong culture of safety awareness, knowledge, planning, and practice to ensure the safety of students, employees, and visitors to our campuses. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. The Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA)  “17   In addition to the other powers of a board under this Part and Part 4, a board may (a) Make bylaws respecting the physical examination of the students of the university” 2. The UAPPOL Discrimination, Harassment and Duty to Accommodate Policy and Procedures contain general guidelines about discrimination and duty to accommodate those who are infected with Bloodborne Pathogens.   3. GFC Policy Manual 108.12 General Guidelines Regarding Bloodborne Pathogens 108.12.1 Preamble (…) The University of Alberta also recognizes its duty to minimize the risk of transmission of bloodborne pathogens to/by individuals studying or working at this University. (GFC 15 OCT 1997) (BG 07 NOV 1997) (…) This policy will limit the possibility of transmission of bloodborne pathogens within the educational setting. The University recognizes, however, that it is not possible to completely eliminate the risk of infection. (GFC 15 OCT 1997) (BG 07 NOV 1997) 108.12.2. General Guidelines Students, Academic Staff, Non-academic staff and other individuals at the University of Alberta shall observe Universal Precautions at all times within the educational setting to lessen their risk of acquiring or transmitting bloodborne pathogens from/to another person. These precautions entail the avoidance of direct contact with the blood, blood products, and other body fluids of another person. (GFC 15 OCT 1997) (BG 07 NOV 1997) All staff and students who have any exposure of blood and/or body fluids to non-intact skin, a mucous membrane or a needlestick injury during the course of their work or study are required to report that exposure to their supervisors and the Office of Environment, Health and Safety. These individuals are also required to seek medical attention as soon as possible at a medical facility or the University Health Centre. (GFC 15 OCT 1997) (BG 07 NOV 1997) Further information pertaining to the Health Canada, Infection Control Guidelines: Preventing the Transmission of Bloodborne Pathogens in Health Care and Public Services Settings or Universal Precautions may be obtained from the Office of Environmental Health and Safety. (GFC 15 OCT 1997) (BG 07 NOV 1997) 4. Academic Standards Committee – Terms of Reference “E. Physical Testing and Immunization of Students  ASC approves on GFC's and the Board's behalf, all individual Faculty policies concerning physical testing and immunization of students, and files a report with the GFC Executive Committee for information.” Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) • Those who have been informed • Those who have been consulted • Those who are actively participating The consolidated section was drafted with input from University Health Centre, AHS,  Environment, Health & Safety, and various representatives from the health sciences faculties.   Drafts were then circulated by the deans within their respective faculties for additional input.   Finalized drafts were then approved by the deans of the health sciences faculties at an HSC meeting (October 15, 2015) and then approved through their faculty councils (or delegated body) in January 2016.  Details of participation are as follows: Those who have been informed: ● Claire Burke, Office of the Registrar (August, 2015) ● School of Public Health (Dean, June 11, 2015) ● Campus Saint-Jean (Dean, June 11, 2015) ● Augustana (Dean, June 11, 2015) ● GFC Academic Standards Committee – Sub-Committee on Standards (June 2, 2016) Those who have been consulted: ● Office of the Provost and Vice-President (Academic) - Kate Peters, Sarah Forgie, Nat Kav (September 2015) ● Lihong Yang, Office of the Registrar (August 13, 2015) ● Health Sciences Council Deans (September 18, 2014;October 15, 2015) ● Faculty of Agricultural Life and Environmental Studies (Academic Coordinating Committee, Jan 28,2016)  ● Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry (Faculty Learning Committee, Faculty Council process, May 15, 2015) ● Faculty of Nursing (Executive Committee; January 16, 2016) ● Faculty of Physical Education & Recreation (Faculty Council; January 21, 2016) ● Faculty of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences (Faculty Council; January 15, 2016) ● Faculty of Rehabilitation Medicine (Executive Committee, in lieu of Faculty Council; January 21, 2016) Those who actively participated: ● Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry (Dean Richard Fedorak, July 12, 2015; Dr. Fraser Brenneis, July 12,2015, October 3, 2015) ● Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, School of Dentistry (Chair, Dr. Paul Major, July 14, 2015; Ronna Lozano; September 30, 2015) ● Faculty of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences (Dean James Kehrer, July 13, 2015, September 29, 2015;  Ann Thompson, October 2, 2015) ● Faculty of Nursing (Dean Anita Molzahn; September 29,. 2015) ● Faculty of Physical Education & Recreation (Dean Kerry Mummery, July 9 ,2015) ● University Health Centre (Kevin Freise, Jennifer Walker, Beth Woytas August 18, 2014; May 4, 2015; June 10, 2015; July 22, 2015; October 20, 2015)  ● Alberta Health Services (Cindy Dribnenki, Donna Joy; May 2015) ● Environment, Health, Safety (Adam Conway; June 26, 2015) ● Bloodborne Pathogens Working Group (December 2015, May 2016) GFC ASC Subcommittee on Standards – June 2, 2016 (for review) Approval Route (Governance) (including meeting dates) GFC Academic Standards Committee (June 16, 2016) GFC Executive Committee (Fall, 2016) General Faculties Council (Fall, 2016) Board Learning and Discovery Committee (Fall, 2016) Board of Governors (Fall, 2016) Final Approver Board of Governors Attachments (each to be numbered 1 - <>) 1. Attachment 1 (pages 1 – 4) University Bloodborne Pathogens Policy ",
            "Approval Route": [
                "GFC Academic Standards Committee (June 16, 2016)",
                "GFC Executive Committee (Fall, 2016)",
                "General Faculties Council (Fall, 2016)",
                "Board Learning and Discovery Committee (Fall, 2016)",
                "Board of Governors (Fall, 2016)"
            ],
            "Final Approver": " Board of Governors"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "6",
            "Agenda Title": "Proposal from the Faculty of Graduate Studies and Research regarding laddering of Post Baccalaureate Certificates and Diplomas into Course-based Master’s programs ",
            "Date": "2016-06-16",
            "Committee": "ASC",
            "Proposed By": "Heather Zwicker, Interim Dean, Faculty of Graduate Studies and Research ",
            "Presenter": " Deborah Burshytn, Associate Dean, Faculty of Graduate Studies and Research Subject Laddering of Post Baccalaureate Certificates and Diplomas into Course- based Master’s programs ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) Flexibility in pathways for learners is of increasing importance to offerings by post-secondary institutions.   To provide increased access to graduate education and flexibility for students, laddering is a potential mechanism to allow students to use courses taken in certificates and apply them toward pursuing and completing a master’s degree program. The Impact of the Proposal is Laddering is proposed as a means to reduce course requirements for the master’s degree program but the specifics of how laddered certificates are attributed to a degree are not yet established.  Laddering can allow for the majority of course-work to be completed through certificates where programs are aligned with a series of certificates.   Replaces/Revises (eg, policies, resolutions) Adds to the Course-based Master’s Programs section of the Calendar  Timeline/Implementation Date Effective immediately upon approval Estimated Cost N/A Sources of Funding N/A Notes  Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents For the Public Good EXPERIENCE: …opening doors to a lifetime of learning experiences. 10. OBJECTIVE: Expand access to and engagement in the University of Alberta for learners engaging in continuing and professional education programs, experiences, and lifelong learning activities. i. Strategy: Develop continuing and professional education programs that connect the knowledge-mobilization activities of the university’s faculty members to the needs of diverse learner communities. ii. Strategy: Create a wide range of opportunities, both in person and virtual, for broad, learning-centred programs for alumni and other communities of learners engaging in continuing and professional education. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1.  Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The PSLA gives GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs (section 26(1)).  Further, the Post-Secondary Learning Act (sections 60(1)(c) and (d)) gives the Board of Governors authority over certain admission requirements and rules respecting \"enrolment of students to take courses.\" The Board has delegated its authority over these areas to GFC. GFC has thus established an Academic Standards Committee (GFC ASC) […] and has delegated certain of its powers to the GFC ASC. 2. GFC Academic Standards Committee (3. Mandate of the Committee)  “A. Definitions “i. “Routine and/or Editorial”  […] the terms “routine and/or editorial’ refers to proposals which do not involve or affect other Faculties or units; do not form part of a proposal for a new program; and which do not involve alteration of an existing quota or establishment of a new quota. Editorial or routine changes include any and all changes to the wording of an admissions or academic standing policy. ii. “Substantial”  […] the term “substantial” refers to proposals which involve or affect more than one Faculty or unit; are part of a proposal for a new program; are likely to have a financial impact; represent a definite departure from current policy; involve a quota; articulate a new academic concept.”  “B. Admission and Transfer, Academic Standing, Marking and Grading, Term Work, Examinations, International Baccalaureate (IB), Advanced Placement (AP) i. All proposals from the Faculties or the Administration related to admission and transfer, to the academic standing of students, to institutional marking and grading policies and/or procedures and to term work policies and procedures are submitted to the Provost and Vice-\nPresident (Academic) (or delegate) who chairs the GFC Academic Standards Committee. ASC will consult as necessary with the Faculties and with other individuals and offices in its consideration of these proposals.  ii. ASC acts for GFC in approving routine and/or editorial changes to both admission/transfer policies and academic standing regulations” […] iv. ASC provides advice or recommends to the GFC Academic Planning Committee (APC) on proposals which involve substantial change to admission/transfer regulations or to academic standing regulations. […] viii. ASC maintains a dialogue with the Provost and Vice-President (Academic) on major admission/transfer and academic standing issues.” 3. GFC Academic Planning Committee (3. Mandate of the Committee) “7. Admission, Transfer and Academic Standing a. To consider advice or recommendation from the GFC ASC on proposals for the establishment of or change to general University admission or transfer policies affecting students, including policies affecting Open Studies students, and to act for GFC in approving policies which in APC’s view are minor or routine; and to recommend to GFC on proposals involving major change. b. To consider advice or recommendation from the GFC ASC on proposals which involve substantial change to admission/transfer regulations or to academic standing regulations.” Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) • Those who have been informed • Those who have been consulted • Those who are actively participating Faculty of Graduate Studies & Research Policy Review Committee  Vice-Provost (Programs) Kerry Mummery, Dean, Physical Education and Recreation, December 2, 2015 Faculty Council of Graduate Studies & Research, for discussion January 20, 2016  Faculty Council of Graduate Studies & Research, notice of motion February 24, 2016 Approval Route (Governance) (including meeting dates) Faculty of Graduate Studies & Research Policy Review Committee  Faculty Council of Graduate Studies & Research – approved April 13, 2016 GFC ASC Subcommittee on Standards – June 2, 2016 GFC Academic Standards Committee – June 16, 2016 GFC Academic Planning Committee – June 22, 2016 Final Approver  Attachments (each to be numbered 1 - <>) 1.  Attachment 1 (page 1-4) FGSR Laddering of Certificates and Diplomas into Course Based Master’s Programs ",
            "Approval Route": [
                "Faculty of Graduate Studies & Research Policy Review Committee",
                "Faculty Council of Graduate Studies & Research – approved April 13,",
                "2016",
                "GFC ASC Subcommittee on Standards – June 2, 2016",
                "GFC Academic Standards Committee – June 16, 2016",
                "GFC Academic Planning Committee – June 22, 2016"
            ],
            "Final Approver": ""
        }
    ],
    "PDF url": "ASC_Thursday, June 16, 2016 \n_Material.pdf"
}