{
    "Committee": "CLE",
    "Date": "2017-09-06",
    "Title": "CLE General Faculties Council - 2017-09-06",
    "Location": "2-31 South Academic Building (SAB)",
    "Time": "2:00 PM - 4:00 PM",
    "Attendees": [
        "2:00 PM - 4:00 PM",
        "Sarah Forgie, Chair",
        "Janice Causgrove Dunn",
        "Kathleen DeLong",
        "Robert Desjardins",
        "Yuuki Ito",
        "Firouz Khodayari",
        "Eva Lemaire",
        "Janice Miller-Young",
        "Jeff Rawlings",
        "Norma Rodenburg",
        "Shane Scott",
        "Andrews Tawiah",
        "Jennifer Tupper",
        "Mani Vaidyanathan",
        "Stanley Varnhagen",
        "Janet Wesselius"
    ],
    "Items": [
        {
            "Item No.": "8",
            "Agenda Title": "Committee Kick-Off and Orientation 2017-2018 ",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-09-06",
            "Committee": "CLE",
            "Proposed By": "University Governance ",
            "Presenter": "s Marion Haggarty France, University Secretary Meg Brolley, GFC Secretary ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility General Faculties Council The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) To provide committee members with an overview of the principles under which GFC operates and how these inform the work and functioning of the committee. To orient members to the committee’s mandate, terms of reference, procedures and to committee member roles and responsibilities. Timeline/Implementation Date N/A Supplementary Notes and context Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) Those who are actively participating: • GFC Committee on the Learning Environment (CLE) Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents For the Public Good Objective 21 Encourage continuous improvement in administrative, governance, planning and stewardship systems, procedures, and policies that enable students, faculty, staff, and the institutions as a whole to achieve shared strategic goals. Report of the ad hoc Committee on Academic Governance Including Delegated Authority (April 21, 2017) Orientation and Education “Orientation sessions should provide both high level governance information and detailed information on the responsibilities of members, voting protocol, seating, how meetings are structured, question period procedures, how members can report back to their constituencies, and how to get items on the agenda. It is important to recognize that committee orientation must be designed in light of the fact that those at-large members who do not sit on GFC may require additional attention. The ad hoc committee recommends that  orientation and orientation materials should be provided in a number of modes and formats, including stand-alone orientation workshops, briefings at meetings, and through widely available written and online materials. A GFC member handbook or guidebook would be an ideal reference tool. In light of the unique character of collegial academic governance, GFC members should be encouraged to use orientation sessions to meet and get to know their fellow members and create networks which can provide informal support and community building opportunities. The following recommendations focus on improving orientation to prepare GFC and committee members to be informed and active participants in academic governance. Recommendation: THAT a variety of orientation sessions be offered including a general orientation to governance (Governance 101), followed by orientations more specific to GFC and GFC standing committees, and follow up sessions through the year Recommendation: THAT the responsibilities of members be clearly outlined in a core GFC document” Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) “Powers of general faculties council” 26(1)Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council is responsible for the academic affairs of the university” Attachments: 1. GFC Principles for Delegation of Authority 2. GFC Principles for Standing Committee Composition 3. GFC Roles and Responsibilities of Members 4. GFC Meeting Procedural Rules 5. Current Committee Terms of Reference ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) Those who are actively participating: ",
                "• GFC Committee on the Learning Environment (CLE) ",
                "Alignment/Compliance ",
                "Alignment with Guiding ",
                "Documents ",
                "For the Public Good ",
                "Objective 21 ",
                "Encourage continuous improvement in administrative, governance, ",
                "planning and stewardship systems, procedures, and policies that ",
                "enable students, faculty, staff, and the institutions as a whole to ",
                "achieve shared strategic goals. ",
                "Report of the ad hoc Committee on Academic Governance ",
                "Including Delegated Authority (April 21, 2017) ",
                "Orientation and Education ",
                "“Orientation sessions should provide both high level governance ",
                "information and detailed information on the responsibilities of ",
                "members, voting protocol, seating, how meetings are structured, ",
                "question period procedures, how members can report back to their ",
                "constituencies, and how to get items on the agenda. It is important to ",
                "recognize that committee orientation must be designed in light of the ",
                "fact that those at-large members who do not sit on GFC may require ",
                "additional attention. The ad hoc committee recommends that ",
                " orientation and orientation materials should be provided in a number ",
                "of modes and formats, including stand-alone orientation workshops, ",
                "briefings at meetings, and through widely available written and online ",
                "materials. A GFC member handbook or guidebook would be an ideal ",
                "reference tool. In light of the unique character of collegial academic ",
                "governance, GFC members should be encouraged to use orientation ",
                "sessions to meet and get to know their fellow members and create ",
                "networks which can provide informal support and community building ",
                "opportunities. The following recommendations focus on improving ",
                "orientation to prepare GFC and committee members to be informed ",
                "and active participants in academic governance. ",
                "Recommendation: THAT a variety of orientation sessions be offered ",
                "including a general orientation to governance (Governance 101), ",
                "followed by orientations more specific to GFC and GFC standing ",
                "committees, and follow up sessions through the year ",
                "Recommendation: THAT the responsibilities of members be clearly ",
                "outlined in a core GFC document” ",
                "Compliance with Legislation, ",
                "Policy and/or Procedure ",
                "Relevant to the Proposal ",
                "(please quote legislation and ",
                "include identifying section ",
                "numbers) ",
                "1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) ",
                "“Powers of general faculties council” ",
                "26(1)Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council is ",
                "responsible for the academic affairs of the university” ",
                "Attachments: ",
                "1. GFC Principles for Delegation of Authority ",
                "2. GFC Principles for Standing Committee Composition ",
                "3. GFC Roles and Responsibilities of Members ",
                "4. GFC Meeting Procedural Rules ",
                "5. Current Committee Terms of Reference "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "7",
            "Agenda Title": "Proposed Changes to the Evaluation Procedures and Grading System Section in the University Calendar with respect to required elements of the Course Syllabus ",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-09-06",
            "Committee": "CLE",
            "Proposed By": "Lisa Collins, Vice-Provost and University Registrar; Tammy Hopper, Vice-Provost (Programs) ",
            "Presenter": " Melissa Padfield, Deputy Registrar ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) To consult  on Proposed changes to the Evaluation Procedures and Grading System Section in the University Calendar  Timeline/Implementation Date 2018—2019 University Calendar Supplementary Notes and context Proposed changes respond to concerns raised at GFC in January 2017 regarding communication of emergency protocols. Additional changes add further required elements to the course syllabus. Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> Those who have been informed: • Those who have been consulted: • GFC Committee on the Learning Environment – September 6,\n2017 • GFC Academic Standards Committee Subcommittee on\nStandards – September 7, 2017\n• GFC Academic Standards Committee – September 21, 2107\n• André Costopoulos, Vice-Provost and Dean of Students\n• Wade King, Director - Safe Disclosure & Human Rights\n• Marina Banister, President, Student’s Union\n• Babak Soltannia, President, Graduate Student’s Association\n• Deborah Burshtyn, Vice-Dean, Faculty of Graduate Studies and\nResearch,\n• Janice Hurlburt, Governance Coordinator, Faculty of Graduate\nStudies and Research\n• Amber Holder, University of Alberta International\nThose who are actively participating: • Philip Stack, Associate Vice-President of Risk Management\nServices\n• Lisa Collins, Vice-Provost and University Registrar\n• Tammy Hopper, Vice-Provost (Programs)\nAlignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents For the Public Good OBJECTIVE 1: Build a diverse, inclusive community of exceptional undergraduate and graduate students from Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, and the world http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nOBJECTIVE 19: Prioritize and sustain student, faculty, and staff health, wellness, and safety by delivering proactive, relevant, responsive, and accessible services and initiatives. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) gives GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs Section 26(1)).  2. GFC Committee on the Learning Environment Terms of Reference “The Committee on the Learning Environment is a standing committee of the General Faculties Council that promotes an optimal learning environment in alignment with guiding documents of the University of Alberta. The Committee on the Learning Environment is responsible for making recommendations concerning policy matters and action matters with respect to the following:  […] d) To develop policies that promote ongoing assessment of teaching and learning through all Faculties and units.  […] g) To promote critical reflection on the impact of broad societal changes in teaching, learning, and the learning environment.  […]   i) To consider any matter deemed by the GFC Committee on the Learning Environment to be within the purview of its general responsibility.  […]” 3. Academic Standards Committee – Subcommittee on Standards Terms of Reference  “To review and make recommendations to the GFC Academic Standards Committee (ASC) with respect to a number of issues which affect all students at the University of Alberta. These include, but are not limited to:  a. examination policy  b. academic definitions  c. academic standing regulations  d. admission/transfer requirements”  Consideration of areas in which greater standardization would benefit the University could result in: a) the institution being more easily understood by students, staff, and the general public, and b) the introduction of more efficient practices that may result in economies.” 4.  GFC Academic Standards Committee (ASC) Terms of Reference B. Admission and Transfer, Academic Standing, Marking and Grading, Term Work, Examinations, International Baccalaureate (IB), Advanced Placement (AP) The ASC is responsible for making recommendations and/or for providing advice to GFC, its Executive Committee, and/or the GFC Academic Planning Committee (APC) on the matters set out below, which include such areas as admissions and transfer, including admission and transfer to Faculties, admission of Open Studies students, academic standing policies and general university admission policies, and all institutional marking and grading policies and/or procedures. […] vi. ASC provides advice or recommends to the GFC Executive Committee on institutional marking and grading policies and/or procedures.  vii. ASC provides advice or recommends to the GFC Executive Committee on institutional term work policies and/or procedures (with the exception of that noted in B. ii). […]” Attachment 1.  Proposed Changes to the Evaluation Procedures and Grading System Section of the University Calendar (pages 1 - 3) ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "<For further information see ",
                "the link posted on ",
                "the Governance Toolkit section ",
                "Student Participation Protocol> ",
                "Those who have been informed: ",
                "• ",
                "Those who have been consulted: ",
                "• GFC Committee on the Learning Environment – September 6, ",
                "2017 ",
                "• GFC Academic Standards Committee Subcommittee on ",
                "Standards – September 7, 2017 ",
                "• GFC Academic Standards Committee – September 21, 2107 ",
                "• André Costopoulos, Vice-Provost and Dean of Students ",
                "• Wade King, Director - Safe Disclosure & Human Rights ",
                "• Marina Banister, President, Student’s Union ",
                "• Babak Soltannia, President, Graduate Student’s Association ",
                "• Deborah Burshtyn, Vice-Dean, Faculty of Graduate Studies and ",
                "Research, ",
                "• Janice Hurlburt, Governance Coordinator, Faculty of Graduate ",
                "Studies and Research ",
                "• Amber Holder, University of Alberta International ",
                "Those who are actively participating: ",
                "• Philip Stack, Associate Vice-President of Risk Management ",
                "Services ",
                "• Lisa Collins, Vice-Provost and University Registrar ",
                "• Tammy Hopper, Vice-Provost (Programs) ",
                "Alignment/Compliance ",
                "Alignment with Guiding ",
                "Documents ",
                "For the Public Good ",
                "OBJECTIVE 1: Build a diverse, inclusive community of exceptional ",
                "undergraduate and graduate students from Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, ",
                "and the world ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx ",
                "OBJECTIVE 19: Prioritize and sustain student, faculty, and staff health, ",
                "wellness, and safety by delivering proactive, relevant, responsive, and ",
                "accessible services and initiatives. ",
                "Compliance with Legislation, ",
                "Policy and/or Procedure ",
                "Relevant to the Proposal ",
                "(please quote legislation and ",
                "include identifying section ",
                "numbers) ",
                "1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The Post-Secondary ",
                "Learning Act (PSLA) gives GFC responsibility, subject to the ",
                "authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs Section ",
                "26(1)). ",
                "2. GFC Committee on the Learning Environment Terms of ",
                "Reference ",
                "“The Committee on the Learning Environment is a standing ",
                "committee of the General Faculties Council that promotes an optimal ",
                "learning environment in alignment with guiding documents of the ",
                "University of Alberta. ",
                "The Committee on the Learning Environment is responsible for ",
                "making recommendations concerning policy matters and action ",
                "matters with respect to the following: ",
                "[…] ",
                "d) To develop policies that promote ongoing assessment of teaching ",
                "and learning through all Faculties and units. ",
                "[…] ",
                "g) To promote critical reflection on the impact of broad societal ",
                "changes in teaching, learning, and the learning environment. ",
                "[…] ",
                "i) To consider any matter deemed by the GFC Committee on the ",
                "Learning Environment to be within the purview of its general ",
                "responsibility. ",
                "[…]” ",
                "3. Academic Standards Committee – Subcommittee on Standards ",
                "Terms of Reference ",
                "“To review and make recommendations to the GFC Academic ",
                "Standards Committee (ASC) with respect to a number of issues ",
                "which affect all students at the University of Alberta. These include, ",
                "but are not limited to: ",
                "a. examination policy ",
                "b. academic definitions ",
                "c. academic standing regulations ",
                "d. admission/transfer requirements” ",
                "Consideration of areas in which greater standardization would ",
                "benefit the University could result in: a) the institution being more ",
                "easily understood by students, staff, and the general public, and b) ",
                "the introduction of more efficient practices that may result in ",
                "economies.” ",
                "4.  GFC Academic Standards Committee (ASC) Terms of Reference ",
                "B. Admission and Transfer, Academic Standing, Marking and ",
                "Grading, Term Work, Examinations, International Baccalaureate ",
                "(IB), Advanced Placement (AP) ",
                "The ASC is responsible for making recommendations and/or for ",
                "providing advice to GFC, its Executive Committee, and/or the GFC ",
                "Academic Planning Committee (APC) on the matters set out below, ",
                "which include such areas as admissions and transfer, including ",
                "admission and transfer to Faculties, admission of Open Studies ",
                "students, academic standing policies and general university ",
                "admission policies, and all institutional marking and grading policies ",
                "and/or procedures. […] ",
                "vi. ASC provides advice or recommends to the GFC Executive ",
                "Committee on institutional marking and grading policies and/or ",
                "procedures. ",
                "vii. ASC provides advice or recommends to the GFC Executive ",
                "Committee on institutional term work policies and/or procedures (with ",
                "the exception of that noted in B. ii). […]” ",
                "Attachment ",
                "1.  Proposed Changes to the Evaluation Procedures and Grading System Section of the University Calendar ",
                "(pages 1 - 3) "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        }
    ],
    "url": "/static/CLE/2017-09-06/Past-Meeting-Material.pdf"
}