{
    "Committee": "CLE",
    "Date": "2017-10-04",
    "Title": "CLE General Faculties Council - 2017-10-04",
    "Location": "2-31 South Academic Building (SAB)",
    "Time": "2:00 PM - 4:00 PM",
    "Attendees": [
        "2:00 PM - 4:00 PM",
        "Sarah Forgie, Chair",
        "Janice Causgrove Dunn",
        "Robert Desjardins",
        "Yuuki Ito",
        "Firouz Khodayari",
        "Eva Lemaire",
        "Janice Miller-Young",
        "Jeff Rawlings",
        "Norma Rodenburg",
        "Shane Scott",
        "Andrews Tawiah",
        "Jennifer Tupper",
        "Mani Vaidyanathan",
        "Stanley Varnhagen",
        "Janet Wesselius",
        "Samer Adeeb",
        "Kathleen DeLong"
    ],
    "Items": [
        {
            "Item No.": "5",
            "Agenda Title": "Faculty of Nursing Undergraduate Curriculum Renewal ",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-10-04",
            "Committee": "CLE",
            "Proposed By": "Faculty of Nursing ",
            "Presenter": " Sandra Davidson, Associate Dean (Undergraduate) Faculty of Nursing ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility General Faculties Council The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) To discuss the committee’s mandate in relation to learning, and the learning environment. To consider this mandate with respect to potential changes in the committee’s terms of reference related to: • Evaluation Procedures • Institutional marking and grading policies and/or procedures • Examinations and whether portions of the attached regulations fit within this mandate. Timeline/Implementation Date ongoing Supplementary Notes and context Currently, the terms of reference for the Academic Standards Committee (which has authority related to admissions, transfer, and academic standing), includes the following: • “B. ii. ASC… acts for GFC in approving all proposals for … c) change to the University Calendar Section on Missed Term Work (under the Section entitled Evaluation Procedures and Grading System.)” • “B. vi. ASC provides advice or recommends to the GFC Executive Committee on institutional marking and grading policies and/or procedures.” • “B. vii. ASC provides advice or recommends to the GFC Executive Committee on institutional work policies and/or procedures (with the exception of that noted in B.ii)” In addition, the GFC Executive Committee has authority to approve requests from Faculties which wish to schedule common examinations. The recommendations of the ad hoc committee proposed that this might fit better with the Academic Standing Committee which has the role of monitoring the implementation of the consolidated exam policy. Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) Those who are actively participating: • GFC Committee on the Learning Environment Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents For the Public Good Objective 21: Encourage continuous improvement in administrative, governance, planning, and stewardship systems, procedures, and policies that enable students, faculty, staff, and the institution as a whole to achieve shared strategic goals. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1.  Post-Secondary Learning Act “26(1) Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council is responsible for the academic affairs of the university […] (3) A general faculties council may delegate any of its powers, duties and functions under this Act…as it sees fit and may prescribe conditions governing the exercise or performance of any delegated power, duty or function, including the power of subdelegation.” 2. GFC Academic Standards Committee - Terms of Reference  3. GFC Committee on the Learning Environment – Terms of Reference  The mandate of the Committee on the Learning Environment (CLE) is to promote an optimal teaching and learning environment.   Current terms of reference include: “c) To review and, as necessary, recommend to the GFC Academic Planning Committee or the GFC Executive Committee policies on teaching, learning, teaching evaluation, and recognition for teaching … d) To develop policies that promote ongoing assessment of teaching, learning, and learning services through all Faculties and units.” Attachments: 1. Attachment 1: Attendance - Academic Regulations, University of Alberta Calendar 2017-18 2. Attachment 2: Evaluation Procedures and Grading - Academic Regulations, University of Alberta Calendar 2017-18 3. Attachment 3: Examinations - Academic Regulations, University of Alberta Calendar 2017-18 Assessment and Grading Policy Consolidated Examinations Procedure Access to Evaluative Course Material Procedure Grading Procedure  ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "• GFC Academic Standards Committee – October 19, 2017 ",
                "• GFC ASC Subcommittee on Standards – October 5, 2017 ",
                "• GFC Academic Planning Committee – November 8, 2017 ",
                "Alignment/Compliance ",
                "Alignment with Guiding ",
                "Documents ",
                "For the Public Good ",
                "EXCEL as individuals, and together, sustain a culture that fosters and ",
                "champions distinction and distinctiveness in teaching, learning, research, ",
                "and service. ",
                "Objective 14: Inspire, model and support excellence in teaching and ",
                "learning. ",
                "Strategy i: Foster, encourage, and support innovation and ",
                "experimentation in curriculum development, teaching, and learning at the ",
                "individual, unit, and institutional levels. ",
                "Compliance with Legislation, ",
                "Policy and/or Procedure ",
                "Relevant to the Proposal ",
                "(please quote legislation and ",
                "include identifying section ",
                "numbers) ",
                "1.  Post-Secondary Learning Act ",
                "“26(1) Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council is ",
                "responsible for the academic affairs of the university and, … has the ",
                "authority to […] ",
                "(b) consider and make decisions on the reports of the faculty councils as ",
                "to the programs of study in the faculties;” ",
                "2. GFC Committee on the Learning Environment ",
                " “The Committee on the Learning Environment is a standing committee ",
                "of the General Faculties Council that promotes an optimal learning ",
                "environment in alignment with guiding documents of the University of ",
                "Alberta.” ",
                "3. GFC Academic Standards Committee ",
                "“ASC acts for GFC in approving routine and/or editorial changes to both ",
                "admission/transfer policies and academic standing regulations” ",
                "(“routine and/or editorial” refers to proposals which do not involve or ",
                "affect other Faculties or units; do not form part of a proposal for a new ",
                "program…) ",
                "4. GFC Academic Planning Committee ",
                "“All proposals for major changes to existing undergraduate and graduate ",
                "programs … shall be submitted to the Provost and Vice-President ",
                "(Academic)… ",
                "The Provost and Vice-President (Academic), after consultation with ",
                "relevant Offices, committees or advisers will place the proposal before ",
                "APC. APC has the final authority to approve such proposals unless, in ",
                "the opinion of the Vice-President (Academic), the proposal should be ",
                "forwarded to GFC with an attendant recommendation from APC. ",
                "Presentation available online at:  Upcoming Meeting Materials ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/CommitteeontheLearningEnvironm/UpcomingMeetingMaterial.aspx ",
                "OUTLINE OF ISSUE ",
                "Discussion Item ",
                "Agenda Title: Review of CLE Terms of Reference ",
                "Item ",
                "Proposed by Sarah Forgie, Chair, GFC Committee on the Learning Environment ",
                "Presenter Sarah Forgie, Chair, GFC Committee on the Learning Environment ",
                "Meg Brolley, GFC Secretary ",
                "Details ",
                "Responsibility General Faculties Council ",
                "The Purpose of the item is ",
                "(please be specific) ",
                "To discuss the committee’s mandate in relation to learning, and the ",
                "learning environment. ",
                "To consider this mandate with respect to potential changes in the ",
                "committee’s terms of reference related to: ",
                "• Evaluation Procedures ",
                "• Institutional marking and grading policies and/or procedures ",
                "• Examinations ",
                "and whether portions of the attached regulations fit within this mandate. ",
                "Timeline/Implementation Date ongoing ",
                "Supplementary Notes and ",
                "context ",
                "Currently, the terms of reference for the Academic Standards Committee ",
                "(which has authority related to admissions, transfer, and academic ",
                "standing), includes the following: ",
                "• “B. ii. ASC… acts for GFC in approving all proposals for … c) ",
                "change to the University Calendar Section on Missed Term Work ",
                "(under the Section entitled Evaluation Procedures and Grading ",
                "System.)” ",
                "• “B. vi. ASC provides advice or recommends to the GFC ",
                "Executive Committee on institutional marking and grading ",
                "policies and/or procedures.” ",
                "• “B. vii. ASC provides advice or recommends to the GFC ",
                "Executive Committee on institutional work policies and/or ",
                "procedures (with the exception of that noted in B.ii)” ",
                "In addition, the GFC Executive Committee has authority to approve ",
                "requests from Faculties which wish to schedule common examinations. ",
                "The recommendations of the ad hoc committee proposed that this might ",
                "fit better with the Academic Standing Committee which has the role of ",
                "monitoring the implementation of the consolidated exam policy. ",
                "Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) ",
                "Participation: ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "Those who are actively participating: ",
                "• GFC Committee on the Learning Environment ",
                "Alignment/Compliance ",
                "Alignment with Guiding ",
                "Documents ",
                "For the Public Good ",
                "Objective 21: Encourage continuous improvement in administrative, ",
                "governance, planning, and stewardship systems, procedures, and ",
                "policies that enable students, faculty, staff, and the institution as a whole ",
                "to achieve shared strategic goals. ",
                "Compliance with Legislation, ",
                "Policy and/or Procedure ",
                "Relevant to the Proposal ",
                "(please quote legislation and ",
                "include identifying section ",
                "numbers) ",
                "1.  Post-Secondary Learning Act ",
                "“26(1) Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council is ",
                "responsible for the academic affairs of the university […] ",
                "(3) A general faculties council may delegate any of its powers, duties ",
                "and functions under this Act…as it sees fit and may prescribe conditions ",
                "governing the exercise or performance of any delegated power, duty or ",
                "function, including the power of subdelegation.” ",
                "2. GFC Academic Standards Committee - Terms of Reference ",
                "3. GFC Committee on the Learning Environment – Terms of Reference ",
                " The mandate of the Committee on the Learning Environment (CLE) is to ",
                "promote an optimal teaching and learning environment. ",
                "Current terms of reference include: ",
                "“c) To review and, as necessary, recommend to the GFC Academic ",
                "Planning Committee or the GFC Executive Committee policies on ",
                "teaching, learning, teaching evaluation, and recognition for teaching … ",
                "d) To develop policies that promote ongoing assessment of teaching, ",
                "learning, and learning services through all Faculties and units.” ",
                "Attachments: ",
                "1. Attachment 1: Attendance - Academic Regulations, University of Alberta Calendar 2017-18 ",
                "2. Attachment 2: Evaluation Procedures and Grading - Academic Regulations, University of Alberta ",
                "Calendar 2017-18 ",
                "3. Attachment 3: Examinations - Academic Regulations, University of Alberta Calendar 2017-18 ",
                "Assessment and Grading Policy ",
                "Consolidated Examinations Procedure ",
                "Access to Evaluative Course Material Procedure ",
                "Grading Procedure "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        }
    ],
    "url": "/static/CLE/2017-10-04/Past-Meeting-Material.pdf"
}