{
    "Committee": "CLE",
    "Date": "Wednesday, December 06, 2017 \n",
    "Title": "CLE General Faculties Council - 2017-12-06",
    "Location": "2-31 South Academic Building (SAB)",
    "Time": "2:00 PM - 4:00 PM",
    "Attendees": [
        "2:00 PM - 4:00 PM",
        "Sarah Forgie, Chair",
        "Janice Causgrove Dunn",
        "Kathleen DeLong",
        "Robert Desjardins",
        "Yuuki Ito",
        "Firouz Khodayari",
        "Eva Lemaire",
        "Janice Miller-Young",
        "Adam Giraldeau (delegate)",
        "Norma Rodenburg",
        "Shane Scott",
        "Jennifer Tupper",
        "Mani Vaidyanathan",
        "Stanley Varnhagen",
        "Samer Adeeb",
        "Andrews Tawiah",
        "Janet Wesselius"
    ],
    "Items": [
        {
            "Item No.": "4",
            "Agenda Title": "University of Alberta Museums Annual Report for the Period:    July 1, 2016 – June 30, 2017 ",
            "Date": "2017-12-06",
            "Committee": "CLE",
            "Proposed By": "Janine Andrews, Executive Director, Museums and Collections Services, and Jocelyn Hall, Chair, University of Alberta Museums Policy and Planning Committee ",
            "Presenter": " Janine Andrews, Executive Director, Museums and Collections Services, and Jocelyn Hall, Chair, University of Alberta Museums Policy and Planning Committee ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) To file an annual report, as requested, with General Faculties Council.   Timeline/Implementation Date This Annual Report covers a reporting period of July 1, 2016 – June 30, 2017 Supplementary Notes and context N/A Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> Those who have been informed: • Interim Vice-Provost (Learning Services) (as non-voting member of the Policy and Planning Committee) Those who have been consulted: • University of Alberta Museums Policy and Planning Committee (November 22, 2017) for review and approval. Those who are actively participating: • N/A Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents For the Public Good EXCEL as individuals, and together, sustain a culture that fosters and champions distinction and distinctiveness in teaching, learning, research, and service. Objective 13: Enable University of Alberta researchers to succeed and excel. Strategy iv. Secure and sustain funding for the continuous evolution and operation of research facilities and resources (e.g., libraries, labs, Research Services Office, museums and collections, performance spaces, fine arts facilities, and U of A Press) to meet the changing needs of our broad-based research community. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): GFC has responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs. (Section 26(1))  GFC has thus established policies governing University Museums Collections, as set out in University of Alberta Policies and Procedures On-Line (UAPPOL).  7\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nnumbers)   2.  GFC Policy: The University of Alberta Museums Annual Report is one of several reports from non-GFC committees/entities requested to provide an annual report to GFC.  3. GFC Committee on the Learning Environment “c) To review and, as necessary, recommend to the GFC Academic Planning Committee or the GFC Executive Committee policies developed by the Learning Services units to promote the University’s Academic Plan.” 4. GFC Terms of Reference (GFC Procedures (GFC Agendas) (Reports)):  “Reports not requiring action by GFC will be discussed by the Executive Committee (with committee chairs in attendance) and placed on the GFC agenda for information. If a GFC member has a question about a report, or feels that the report should be discussed by GFC, the GFC member should notify the Secretary to GFC, in writing, two business days or more before GFC meets so that the committee chair can be invited to attend. Such reports will be discussed as the last of the standing items.” (Section 4.a.) Annual reports are made available to GFC online (GFC, February 24, 2003, Minute 14). Attachments  1.  University of Alberta Museums Annual Report 2016 - 2017 (page(s) 1 - 14) ",
            "Approval Route": "N/A",
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "5",
            "Agenda Title": "Teaching Evaluation – GFC Policy 111: Teaching and Learning and Teaching Evaluation ",
            "Date": "2017-12-06",
            "Committee": "CLE",
            "Proposed By": "Sarah Forgie, Chair, GFC Committee on the Learning Environment ",
            "Presenter": " Sarah Forgie, Chair, GFC Committee on the Learning Environment ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) To have a high level discussion on GFC Policy 111 to provide input on the relevancy of the components and to inform the policy development process which will return to the committee for discussion at a subsequent meeting.  Timeline/Implementation Date N/A Supplementary Notes and context On October 30, 2017, General Faculties Council (GFC) endorsed the recommendations of CLE related to Teaching and Learning and Teaching Evaluation and the Use of the Universal Student Ratings of Instruction (USRI) as an Evaluation Tool. Recommendation 3 called for the examination of GFC Policy 111. Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) For early consultation with GFC Committee on the Learning Environment. Consultation pathway to be determined.  Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents For the Public Good GOAL: EXCEL as individuals, and together, sustain a culture that fosters and champions distinction and distinctiveness in teaching, learning, research, and service. OBJECTIVE 14: Inspire, model, and support excellence in teaching and learning. Strategy iii: Provide robust supports, tools, and training to develop and assess teaching quality, using qualitative and quantitative criteria that are fair, equitable, and meaningful across disciplines. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The PSLA gives GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs (Section 26(1)). 4. GFC Committee on the Learning Environment (CLE) Terms of Reference (3.Mandate of the Committee): “The Committee on the Learning Environment is responsible for making recommendations concerning policy matters and action matters with respect to the following: […] b) To review and, as necessary, recommend to the GFC Academic Planning Committee and GFC Executive Committee as relates to the development and implementation of policies on teaching, learning, teaching evaluation, and recognition for teaching that promote the 23\nUniversity Academic Plan.” Attachments (each to be numbered 1 - <>) 1.  Attachment 1: GFC Policy 111: Teaching and Learning and Teaching Evaluation ",
            "Approval Route": "N/A",
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        }
    ],
    "PDF url": "CLE_Wednesday, December 06, 2017 \n_Material.pdf"
}