{
    "Committee": "CLE",
    "Date": "Wednesday, April 05, 2017 \n",
    "Title": "CLE General Faculties Council - 2017-04-05",
    "Location": "2-31 South Academic Building (SAB)",
    "Time": "2:00 PM - 4:00 PM",
    "Attendees": [
        "2:00 PM - 4:00 PM",
        "Sarah Forgie Chair (Delegate), Provost and Vice-President (Academic)",
        "Fahim Rahman (Delegate) Member, Vice-President (Academic), Students’ Union",
        "Gerald Beasley Member, Vice-Provost and Chief Librarian",
        "Allen Berger Member, Dean Representative",
        "Janice Causgrove Dunn Member, Associate Dean or Associate Chair, Teaching and Learning",
        "Shannon Erichsen Member, Support staff representative",
        "Firouz Khodayari Member, Vice-President (Academic), Graduate Students’ Association",
        "Glen Loppnow Member, Associate Dean or Associate Chair, Teaching and Learning",
        "Brian Maraj Member, Major Teaching Award Recipient",
        "Janice Miller-Young Member, Academic Director, Centre for Teaching and Learning",
        "Jeff Rawlings Member (Delegate), Vice-Provost and Associate Vice-President, Information",
        "Technology",
        "Norma Rodenburg Member (Delegate), Vice-Provost and University Registrar",
        "Carrie Smith-Prei Member, Academic staff member  and current serving member of GFC",
        "Quinten Starko Member, Undergraduate Student at-Large",
        "Mani Vaidyanathan Member, Academic Staff",
        "Stanley Varnhagen Member, Academic Staff",
        "Presenters:",
        "Sarah Forgie Vice-Provost (Learning Initiatives) and Chair, GFC CLE",
        "Fahim Rahman GFC CLE Subcommittee to Explore Teaching Tenure Stream at University of",
        "Alberta, and President of the Students’ Union",
        "Francisco Vargas Research Coordinator, Centre for Teaching and Learning",
        "Norma Nocente Associate Director, Centre for Teaching and Learning",
        "Rebecca Best-Bertwistle Research Assistant, Centre for Teaching and Learning"
    ],
    "Items": [
        {
            "Item No.": "4",
            "Agenda Title": "White Paper of the GFC Committee on Learning Environment (CLE) Subcommittee to Explore Teaching Tenure Stream at the University of Alberta ",
            "Date": "2017-04-05",
            "Committee": "CLE",
            "Proposed By": "Fahim Rahman, GFC CLE Subcommittee to Explore Teaching Tenure Stream at University of Alberta, and President of the Students’ Union ",
            "Presenter": " Fahim Rahman, GFC CLE Subcommittee to Explore Teaching Tenure Stream at University of Alberta, and President of the Students’ Union ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) To approve the White Paper of the GFC CLE Subcommittee to Explore Teaching Tenure Stream at the University of Alberta.  The Impact of the Proposal is N/A Replaces/Revises (eg, policies, resolutions) N/A Timeline/Implementation Date N/A Estimated Cost and funding source N/A Next Steps (ie.: Communications Plan, Implementation plans) Supplementary Notes and context N/A Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> Those who have been informed: • Written update provided to GFC Committee on Learning Environment on October 5, 2016.  Those who have been consulted: • Members of GFC Committee on Learning Environment on March 1 and January 25, 2017 and on November 2, 2016.  Those who are actively participating: • Members of CLE  • Members of CLE Sub-committee to Explore Teaching Tenure Stream at University of Alberta: Sarah Forgie (Chair of GFC CLE and Vice-Provost (Learning Initiatives)) Fahim Rahman (President of the Students’ Union) Roger Graves (formerly Acting Director, Centre for Teaching and Learning) Firouz Khodayari (Vice President (Academic), Graduate http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\n Students’ Association) Toni Samek (member of GFC CLE until June 30, 2016 and Professor and Chair at the School of Library and Information Studies) Rachel Milner (FSO Teaching Professor, Dept. of Biochemistry and member of AASUA until July 1, 2016) Sourayan Mookerjea (Assoc. Professor, Dept. of Sociology and member of AASUA since July 1, 2016) Approval Route (Governance) (including meeting dates) N/A Final Approver N/A Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents The Institutional Strategic Plan – For the Public Good  Goal: Build a diverse, inclusive community of exceptional students, faculty, and staff from Alberta, Canada, and the world.  Objective: Create a faculty renewal program that builds on the strengths of existing faculty and ensures the sustainable development of the University of Alberta’s talented, highly qualified, and diverse academy. iii. Strategy: Stabilize long-term investments in contract academic staff by offering career paths that include the possibility of continuing appointments based on demonstrated excellence in teaching. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) GFC Committee on the Learning Environment Terms of Reference (3. Mandate) “The Committee on the Learning Environment is responsible for making recommendations concerning policy matters and action matters with respect to the following:           the University’s Academic Plan with regard to optimal teaching and an optimal learning environment. b) To review and, as necessary, recommend to the GFC Academic Planning Committee or the GFC Executive Committee policies on teaching, learning, teaching evaluation, and recognition for teaching that promote the University’s Academic Plan. c) To review and, as necessary, recommend to the GFC Academic Planning Committee or the GFC Executive Committee policies developed by the Learning Services units to promote the University’s Academic Plan. (GFC 22 SEP 2014) d) To develop policies that promote ongoing assessment of teaching, learning, and learning services through all Faculties and units.  e) T  nurture the development of innovative and creative learning services and teaching practices. f) To encourage the sharing and discussion of evidence about effective teaching, learning, and learning services. g) To promote critical reflection on the impact of broad societal changes in teaching, learning, and the learning environment. h) To promote projects with relevant internal and external bodies that offer unique teaching and learning opportunities that would benefit the university community. i) To consider any matter deemed by the GFC Committee on the Learning Environment to be within the purview of its general  responsibility. GFC CLE Subcommittee to Explore Teaching Tenure Stream at University of Alberta Terms of Reference (2. Mandate) The mandate of the subcommittee is to explore the opportunities and challenges for creating a teaching tenure stream at University of Alberta with the goal to enhance quality instruction and learning environment for undergraduate students. To fulfill this mandate the committee will consider undertaking the following activities: 1. Consider the ways creation of teaching tenure stream (accompanied by continuing appoint and job stability, greater professional development opportunities, increased scholarship of teaching and learning, increased support and resources from home department and faculty) will potentially affect the learning environment and quality of instruction available to undergraduate students at University of Alberta. 2. Review teaching tenure stream practices and arrangements at other Canadian peer institutions and research available literature on the issue in Canadian post-secondary landscape (and if need be, at equivalent American public post-\nsecondary context). 1.  Attachment 1: White Paper: A Brief Analysis of Arguments For and Against Creation of Teaching-Only Stream, Pg. 1-7 2.  Attachment 2: A Comparative Analysis of Teaching Stream at Eight Canadian Post-Secondary Institutions. 3. Attachment 3: Terms of Reference of GFC CLE Subcommittee to Explore Teaching Tenure Stream at University of Alberta, as approved by CLE on March 2, 2016, Pg 1-6.  ",
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": " N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "5",
            "Agenda Title": "Teaching and Learning and Teaching Evaluation and the Use of the Universal Student Ratings of Instruction (USRI) as an Evaluative Tool ",
            "Date": "2017-04-05",
            "Committee": "CLE",
            "Proposed By": "Sarah Forgie, Chair, Committee  on the Learning Environment ",
            "Presenter": " Sarah Forgie, Chair, Committee  on the Learning Environment and Principal Investigator Norma Nocente, Co-Investigator L Francisco Vargas M, Research Coordinator Rebecca Best-Bertwistle, Research Assistant ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) The Committee was requested by GFC to report on research into the use of student rating mechanisms of instruction in university courses. This report fulfills this request and, once approved by CLE, will be forwarded to GFC.  The Impact of the Proposal is  Replaces/Revises (eg, policies, resolutions) N/A Timeline/Implementation Date N/A Estimated Cost and funding source Next Steps (ie.: Communications Plan, Implementation plans) Final report will be forwarded to General Faculties Council. Supplementary Notes and context On May 30, 2016, General Faculties Council passed the following motion: THAT the General Faculties Council, on the recommendation of the GFC Executive Committee, request that the GFC Committee on the Learning Environment report by 30 April 2017, on research into the use of student rating mechanisms of instruction in university courses. This will be informed by a critical review of the University of Alberta’s existing Universal Student Ratings of Instruction (USRIs) and their use for assessment and evaluation of teaching as well as a broad review of possible methods of multifaceted assessment and evaluation of teaching. The ultimate objective will be to satisfy the Institutional Strategic Plan: For the Public Good strategy to: Provide robust supports, tools, and training to develop and assess teaching quality, using qualitative and quantitative criteria that are fair, equitable, and meaningful across disciplines. Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> Those who have been informed: • Provost and Vice-President (Academic) • Vice-Provost Council • Deans’ Council • Chairs’ Council Those who have been consulted: • GFC Committee on the Learning Environment Those who are actively participating: • GFC Committee on the Learning Environment • Sarah Forgie, Vice-Provost (Learning Initiatives) and Principal Investigator • Norma Nocente, Co-Investigator • L Francisco Vargas M, Research Coordinator • Rebecca Best-Bertwistle, Research Assistant Approval Route (Governance) (including meeting dates) GFC Committee on the Learning Environment – April 2017 GFC Executive Committee – September 2017 Final Approver General Faculties Council – September 2017 Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents For the Public Good GOAL: EXCEL as individuals, and together, sustain a culture that fosters and champions distinction and distinctiveness in teaching, learning, research, and service. OBJECTIVE 14: Inspire, model, and support excellence in teaching and learning.  Strategy iii: Provide robust supports, tools, and training to develop and assess teaching quality, using qualitative and quantitative criteria that are fair, equitable, and meaningful across disciplines. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The PSLA gives GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs (Section 26(1)).  2. General Faculties Council Terms of Reference (3. Mandate of the Committee) “The issues which remain with GFC or which would be referred by a Standing Committee of GFC would generally be in the nature of the following: • High level strategic and stewardship policy issues or matters of significant risk to the University”  3. GFC Executive Committee Terms of Reference (3. Mandate of the Committee) “5. Agendas of General Faculty Council GFC has delegated to the Executive Committee the authority to decide which items are placed on a GFC Agenda, and the order in which those agenda items appear on each GFC agenda.” http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\n4. GFC Committee on the Learning Environment (CLE) Terms of Reference (3.Mandate of the Committee):  “The Committee on the Learning Environment is a standing committee of the General Faculties Council that promotes an optimal learning environment in alignment with guiding documents of the University of Alberta.  The Committee on the Learning Environment is responsible for making recommendations concerning policy matters and action matters with respect to the following:  […] b) To review and, as necessary, recommend to the GFC Academic Planning Committee and GFC Executive Committee as relates to the development and implementation of policies on teaching, learning, teaching evaluation, and recognition for teaching that promote the University Academic Plan. c) To develop policies that promote ongoing assessment of teaching and learning through all Faculties and units. d) To nurture the development of innovative and creative teaching practices. e) To encourage the sharing and discussion of evidence about effective teaching and learning. f) To encourage the sharing and discussion of evidence about effective teaching, learning, and the services. g) To promote projects with relevant internal and external bodies that offer unique teaching and learning opportunities that would benefit the university community. h) To consider any matter deemed by the GFC Committee on the Learning Environment to be within the purview of its general responsibility. 5. GFC policy 111 Teaching and Learning and Teaching Evaluation “111.2 Teaching Evaluation  1. Evaluation of teaching at the University of Alberta serves two purposes: a. Summative – Evaluation provides a review and overview of an instructor’s teaching that is an essential element in promotion and tenure decisions. In its summative form, teaching evaluation forms a basis for rewarding excellence, as well as the basis for withholding reward. b. Formative – Evaluation provides helpful feedback to teachers by identifying teaching strengths and weaknesses and, in so doing, giving guidance for the improvement or refinement of teaching skills. 2. Evaluation of teaching must be multifaceted. Multifaceted evaluation shall include the Universal Student Ratings of Instruction set out in Section 111.3 and other methods of assessing teaching designed within individual Faculties to respond to the particular conditions of that Faculty. Such assessments shall include one or more of the following: input from administrators, peers, self, undergraduate and graduate students, and alumni. 3. Recognizing that the evaluation of teaching at the University shall be  multifaceted, Faculty Evaluation Committee (FEC) decisions concerning tenure, promotion or unsatisfactory teaching performance must be based on more than one indicator of the adequacy of teaching. 4. Assessment of teaching involving input from administrators, peers, self, alumni, or undergraduate and graduate students in addition to the Universal Student Ratings of Instruction should occur annually prior to tenure. For continuing faculty (ie, Categories A1.1, A1.5 and A1.6), such assessment will occur at least triennially.  5. The University shall continue to support University Teaching Services in its education programming which is focused on the development and improvement of teaching and learning and its efforts to enhance research in university teaching. 111.3 Universal Student Ratings of Instruction In recognition of the University's commitment to teaching, the General Faculties Council endorses a system of Universal Student Ratings of Instruction. This system, however, is only one part of the multi-faceted approach described in Section 111.2. The Universal Student Ratings of Instruction are administered electronically via a system known as the eUSRI system.   The Universal Student Ratings of Instruction are designed to provide a minimal university-wide base of information on student ratings to the parties listed in this Section. With this purpose in mind, the General Faculties Council adopts the following policies: A. All Faculties will ensure that evaluation of all instructors and courses will take place each time a course is offered. The term ‘instructors’ is meant to include tenured professors, tenure-track professors, sessional instructors, clinical instructors, field supervisors and graduate teaching assistants with responsibilities for courses. […] D. The anonymity of student responses to the Universal Student Ratings of Instruction is of fundamental importance in maintaining student confidentiality and encouraging the free expression of views. Under normal circumstances, the anonymity of students will be protected. Universal Student Ratings of Instruction offer an avenue of feedback, including feedback critical of instructors. […] G. The numerical summaries for the ten Universal Student Ratings of Instruction questions will be reported to the instructor, the Chair, Director or Dean and students. […] I. All results given out to students, Chairs, Directors and Deans will have the following cautionary preface: Student questionnaires form an important part of evaluating teaching effectiveness but cannot be taken alone as a complete assessment of an instructor or course. Factors other than an instructor’s teaching ability may influence ratings. These factors include class size, class level, Faculty, time in class, required versus optional course, grade  expectations, student GPA, gender, race, ethnicity, age of both students and instructors. […] J. Nothing in this section will prevent instructors from seeking other means of feedback from students during the term.” The full GFC Policy 111 Teaching and Learning and Teaching Evaluation is available at: http://www.gfcpolicymanual.ualberta.ca/111TeachingandLearningandTe\nach.aspx 5. University of Alberta Faculty Agreement July 2006 (incorporating June 2007 and July 2008 amendments) “13.06 The standards for evaluation of teaching performance shall be broadly based, including course content, course design and performance in the classroom. Such evaluation may take into account information such as statistical summaries of responses to student questionnaires, comprehensive reviews of student commentary; reviews by peers, reviews by administrative officials and reviews of teaching dossiers and other materials provided by the staff member.” Attachments (each to be numbered 1 - <>) 1.  Attachment 1 (30 pages) Evaluation of Teaching at the University of Alberta ",
            "Approval Route": [
                "GFC Committee on the Learning Environment – April 2017",
                "GFC Executive Committee – September 2017"
            ],
            "Final Approver": " General Faculties Council – September 2017"
        }
    ],
    "PDF url": "CLE_Wednesday, April 05, 2017 \n_Material.pdf"
}