{
    "Committee": "CLE",
    "Date": "2017-11-01",
    "Title": "CLE General Faculties Council - 2017-11-01",
    "Location": "2-31 South Academic Building (SAB)",
    "Time": "2:00 PM - 4:00 PM",
    "Attendees": [
        "2:00 PM - 4:00 PM",
        "Sarah Forgie, Chair",
        "Samer Adeeb",
        "Janice Causgrove Dunn",
        "Kathleen DeLong",
        "Robert Desjardins",
        "Yuuki Ito",
        "Firouz Khodayari",
        "Eva Lemaire",
        "Janice Miller-Young",
        "Norma Rodenburg",
        "Shane Scott",
        "Andrews Tawiah",
        "Jennifer Tupper",
        "Stanley Varnhagen",
        "Janet Wesselius",
        "Jeff Rawlings",
        "Mani Vaidyanathan"
    ],
    "Items": [
        {
            "Item No.": "5",
            "Agenda Title": "Proposed Student Groups Policy Suite ",
            "Motion": " N/A ",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-11-01",
            "Committee": "CLE",
            "Proposed By": "André Costopoulos, Vice-Provost and Dean of Students ",
            "Presenter": " André Costopolous, Vice-Provost and Dean of Students Katherine Zwicker, Manager, Student Affairs, Office of the Dean of Students ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) To discuss the proposed Student Groups Policy suite and to recommend  GFC approval. The Impact of the Proposal is The proposed policy suite provides greater transparency and detail regarding the responsibilities and benefits of being a recognized student group. It provides guiding principles that inform the University's decisions to recognize student groups and approve their events, and the processes through which student groups can obtain University recognition and event approval.   Greater clarity and transparency in student groups policy and procedure should facilitate improved student experience and guidance for administrative staff. Replaces/Revises (eg, policies, resolutions) This proposed policy and procedures will replace the current Student Groups Procedure, which was approved by General Faculties Council in February 2014. Timeline/Implementation Date Implementation upon final approval by the Board of Governors. Target Board of Governors meeting - March 16, 2018. Estimated Cost and funding source N/A Next Steps (ie.: Communications Plan, Implementation plans) TBD Supplementary Notes and context In February 2014, General Faculties Council approved the current Student Group Procedure and the concurrent removal of ‘Student Groups’ from the Code of Student Behaviour.   Due to its role in the approval of the current procedure, the proposed policy suite was presented to the GFC Campus Law Review Committee for discussion at the October 26, 2017 meeting. At that meeting, members raised issues pertaining to the definition and relevance of Risk to Reputation, and expressed concerns related to freedom of inquiry and expression.  1\n Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the 18TUGovernance Toolkit section Student Participation ProtocolU18T> UThose who have been informed: • University Governance • GSA Council • Readership of Students-Digest (Vol 6, Iss 13, March28, 2017) • Readership of Student Group Services Bi-Weekly Newsletter (April 4, 2017) UThose who have been consulted: • André Costopoulos, Vice-Provost and Dean of Students • Office of the Provost and Vice-President Academic • GFC CLRC Stakeholders Working Group – September 14, 2017 • General Counsel • University Governance • Risk Management Services (Insurance & Risk Assessment) • University of Alberta Protective Services • University Relations • Campus and Community Recreation • SU Council • SU executives and staff • GSA executives and staff • Council on Student Affairs • Dean’s Advisory Committee (Dean of Students) • Council of Residence Services • Residence Advisory Committee • Interfraternity Council • Panhellenic Council • Augustana Student Services Staff and student representatives from Augustana Students’ Association • CSJ Student Services Staff and student representatives from Association des universitaires de la Faculté Saint-Jean (AUFSJ)  • GFC Campus Law Review Committee (October 26, 2017) - Discussion • GFC Committee on the Learning Environment (CLE) (November 1, 2017) - Discussion • GFC Committee on the Learning Environment (CLE) (December 6, 2017) - Recommendation • GFC Executive Committee (January 15, 2018) - Recommendation • GFC (January 29, 2018) - Recommendation • Board Learning and Discovery Committee (March 2, 2018) - Recommendation • Board of Governors (March 16, 2018) – Final Approval UThose who are actively participating: • Office of the Dean of Students  • General Counsel • GFC CLRC (October 26, 2017) • GFC Committee on the Learning Environment (November 1, 2017) • GFC Committee on the Learning Environment (CLE) (December 2\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\n 6, 2017) • GFC Executive Committee (January 15, 2018) • GFC (January 29, 2018) • BLDC (March 2, 2018) • Board of Governors (March 16, 2018) (final approval) Approval Route (Governance) (including meeting dates) GFC Committee on the Learning Environment  (December 6, 2017) GFC Executive Committee (January 15, 2018) General Faculties Council (January 29, 2018) Board of Governors (March 16, 2018)  Final Approver Board of Governors Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents For the Public Good BUILD  OBJECTIVE 5: Build and strengthen trust, connection, and a sense of belonging among all members of the university community through a focus on shared values. Strategy i. Support and enhance activities, initiatives, and traditions that bond alumni, students, staff, faculty, and professors emeriti to the university. Strategy vi. Encourage and support institution-wide initiatives, services, and programs, such as arts and cultural activities, intramurals, student groups, volunteering, clubs, and centres, which bring students from all faculties into community with each other. EXPERIENCE  OBJECTIVE 8: Create and facilitate co- and extra-curricular learning experiences for undergraduate and graduate students that enable their self-discovery and give them the skills to use their talents, creativity, and curiosity to contribute as future citizens and leaders. Strategy iii. Support the roles of the Graduate Students’ Association and Students’ Union, along with other student groups, in promotion of extra- curricular programs on our campuses to create a sense of community and support of the learning environment. SUSTAIN  OBJECTIVE 21: Encourage continuous improvement in administrative, governance, planning and stewardship systems, procedures, and policies that enable students, faculty, staff, and the institution as a whole to achieve shared strategic goals. Strategy i. Encourage transparency and improve communication across the university through clear consultation and decision-making processes, substantive and timely communication of information, and access to 3\n shared, reliable institutional data. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please UquoteU legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The Post-Secondary Learning Act gives General Faculties Council (GFC) responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over \"academic affairs\" (section 26(1)). Further, PSLA Section 31(1) – Student Affairs states “The general faculties council has general supervision of student affairs at a university and in particular, but without restricting the generality, the general faculties council may […] (b) delegate its power to discipline students in any particular case or generally to any person or body of persons, subject to any conditions with respect to the exercise of any delegated power that it considers proper [.] […]”  2. GFC Campus Law Review Committee Terms of Reference:  “From time to time the Chair of GFC CLRC will bring forward to GFC CLRC items where the Office of the Provost and Vice-President (Academic), in consultation with other units or officers of the University, is seeking the advice of the committee. These matters may include, but are not limited to, rules and regulations other than discipline codes.”  3. GFC Committee on the Learning Environment “The Committee on the Learning Environment is a standing committee of the General Faculties Council that promotes an optimal learning environment in alignment with guiding documents of the University of Alberta.” 4. GFC Executive Committee Terms of Reference   “GFC has delegated to the Executive Committee the authority to decide which items are placed on a GFC Agenda, and the order in which those agenda items appear on each GFC agenda.  When ordering items, the GFC Executive Committee will be mindful of any matters that are of particular concern to students during March and April so that the student leaders who bring those items forward are able to address these items at GFC before their terms end. […] The role of the Executive Committee shall be to examine and debate the substance of report or recommendations and to decide if an item is ready to be forwarded to the full governing body. The Executive Committee may decide to refer a proposal back to the originating body, to refer the proposal to another body or individual for study or review, or to take other action in order to ready a proposal for consideration by General Faculties Council.”  5. General Faculties Council Terms of Reference  (Mandate)  “The issues which remain with GFC or which would be referred by a Standing Committee to GFC would generally be in the nature of the following: high level strategic and stewardship policy issues or matters of significant risk to the University”  Powers Under the PSLA as Delegated in Whole or in Part (PSLA Section 26(1))  4\n “Subject to the authority of the board… The general faculties council has general supervision of student affairs at a university and in particular, but without restricting the generality of the foregoing, the general faculties council may  a. subject to a right of appeal to the board, discipline students attending the university, and the power to discipline includes the power i. to fine students, ii. to suspend the right of students to attend the university or to participate in any student activities, or both, and iii. to expel students from the university;  b. delegate its power to discipline students in any particular case or generally to any person or body of persons…. (PSLA Section 31(1)(a))”  Attachments: 1. Proposed Student Groups Policy 2. Proposed Student Groups Recognition Procedure 3. Proposed Student Groups Events and Activities Procedure 4. Current Student Groups Procedure (UAPPOL) ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "<For further information see ",
                "the link posted on ",
                "the 18TUGovernance Toolkit section ",
                "Student Participation ProtocolU18T> ",
                "UThose who have been informed: ",
                "• University Governance ",
                "• GSA Council ",
                "• Readership of Students-Digest (Vol 6, Iss 13, March28, 2017) ",
                "• Readership of Student Group Services Bi-Weekly Newsletter ",
                "(April 4, 2017) ",
                "UThose who have been consulted: ",
                "• André Costopoulos, Vice-Provost and Dean of Students ",
                "• Office of the Provost and Vice-President Academic ",
                "• GFC CLRC Stakeholders Working Group – September 14, 2017 ",
                "• General Counsel ",
                "• University Governance ",
                "• Risk Management Services (Insurance & Risk Assessment) ",
                "• University of Alberta Protective Services ",
                "• University Relations ",
                "• Campus and Community Recreation ",
                "• SU Council ",
                "• SU executives and staff ",
                "• GSA executives and staff ",
                "• Council on Student Affairs ",
                "• Dean’s Advisory Committee (Dean of Students) ",
                "• Council of Residence Services ",
                "• Residence Advisory Committee ",
                "• Interfraternity Council ",
                "• Panhellenic Council ",
                "• Augustana Student Services Staff and student representatives ",
                "from Augustana Students’ Association ",
                "• CSJ Student Services Staff and student representatives from ",
                "Association des universitaires de la Faculté Saint-Jean (AUFSJ) ",
                "• GFC Campus Law Review Committee (October 26, 2017) - ",
                "Discussion ",
                "• GFC Committee on the Learning Environment (CLE) (November ",
                "1, 2017) - Discussion ",
                "• GFC Committee on the Learning Environment (CLE) (December ",
                "6, 2017) - Recommendation ",
                "• GFC Executive Committee (January 15, 2018) - ",
                "Recommendation ",
                "• GFC (January 29, 2018) - Recommendation ",
                "• Board Learning and Discovery Committee (March 2, 2018) - ",
                "Recommendation ",
                "• Board of Governors (March 16, 2018) – Final Approval ",
                "UThose who are actively participating: ",
                "• Office of the Dean of Students ",
                "• General Counsel ",
                "• GFC CLRC (October 26, 2017) ",
                "• GFC Committee on the Learning Environment (November 1, ",
                "2017) ",
                "• GFC Committee on the Learning Environment (CLE) (December ",
                "2 ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx ",
                " 6, 2017) ",
                "• GFC Executive Committee (January 15, 2018) ",
                "• GFC (January 29, 2018) ",
                "• BLDC (March 2, 2018) ",
                "• Board of Governors (March 16, 2018) (final approval) "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "GFC Committee on the Learning Environment  (December 6, 2017)",
                "GFC Executive Committee (January 15, 2018)",
                "General Faculties Council (January 29, 2018)",
                "Board of Governors (March 16, 2018)"
            ],
            "Final Approver": " Board of Governors"
        }
    ],
    "url": "/static/CLE/2017-11-01/Past-Meeting-Material.pdf"
}