{
    "Committee": "CLRC",
    "Date": "2016-09-22",
    "Title": "CLRC General Faculties Council - 2016-09-22",
    "Location": "2-31 South Academic Building (SAB)",
    "Time": "9:30 AM - 11:00 AM",
    "Attendees": [
        "9:30 AM - 11:00 AM",
        "Steven Penney Chair, Academic Staff Elected from at-large, appointed by GFC Executive",
        "Committee",
        "Maxine Clarke Member, Staff",
        "André Costopoulos Member, Vice-Provost and Dean of Students",
        "Francesca El Ghossein Member (Delegate), Representative of the Students' Union Executive,",
        "appointed by the SU Executive",
        "Brent Epperson Member (Delegate), Representative of the Student Ombudservice",
        "Judith Garber Member, Staff",
        "Elaine Geddes Member, Academic Staff and Associate Dean who is a current Associate",
        "Dean",
        "Sarang Gumfekar Member, Student-at-large (Graduate)",
        "Aman Litt Member, Assistant Dean of Students (Residence Services)",
        "Sasha Van der Klein Member, Representative of the Graduate Students' Association, appointed by",
        "the GSA Executive",
        "Meg Brolley Member, Director, General Faculties Council Services and Secretary to GFC",
        "Michael Peterson Member, Appeals and Compliance Officer, Resource",
        "Steven Penney Professor, Faculty of Law and Chair, GFC CLRC",
        "Marion Haggarty-France University Secretary",
        "Meg Brolley Secretary to GFC and Manager of GFC Services",
        "André Costopoulos Vice-Provost and Dean of Students",
        "Wayne Patterson Executive Director, Human Resource Services"
    ],
    "Items": [
        {
            "Item No.": "5",
            "Agenda Title": "Annual Report of the Residence Discipline Statistics: 2015-2016 ",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2016-09-22",
            "Committee": "CLRC",
            "Proposed By": "Aman Litt, Assistant Dean of Students, Residence Life (Acting) ",
            "Presenter": " Craig Whitton, Residence Area Coordinator – Residence Services ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Residence Services The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) To report on the discipline statistics from the U of A residences for the 2015-16 academic year. Timeline/Implementation Date May 1, 2015 to August 31, 2016 Supplementary Notes and context N/A Engagement and Routing GFC CLRC - September 22, 2016 Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> Those who have been informed: • Andre Costopoulos, Vice-Provost, Dean of Students • Resident students • Residence Services • Vice President, Facilities and Operations • GFC Campus Law Review Committee • University of Alberta Protective Services (UAPS) Those who have been consulted: • Sarah Wolgemuth, Assistant Dean, Student Life • Residence Services • Ancillary Services • Doug Dawson, Associate Vice President, Ancillary Services Those who are actively participating: Restorative Justice • Residence Life Staff and Student Staff • Sarah Wolgemuth during her role as Assistant Dean of Student, Residence Life • Aman Litt, Acting Assistant Dean of Student, Residence Life • Craig Whitton, Residence Area Coordinator • Salwa Kramps, Residence Life Administrative Assistant Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents For the Public Good, Institutional Values  Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The PSLA give GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs and over student affairs, including authority concerning student discipline. (Sections 26(1) and 31) In addition, Section 26(1)(o) states GFC “has the authority to make recommendations to the board with respect to […] the regulation of residences and dining halls[.][…]”  Further, PSLA Section 31(1) – Student Affairs states “The general faculties council has general supervision of student affairs at a university and in particular, but without restricting the generality, the general http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\n faculties council may […] (b) delegate its power to discipline students in any particular case or generally to any person or body of persons, subject to any conditions with respect to the exercise of any delegated power that it considers proper [.] […]”  2. GFC Campus Law Review Committee Terms of Reference: “Residence Discipline Reports: To receive annually reports from the student residence associations on the number and disposition of discipline cases in the residences, and forward the reports to the GFC Executive Committee. (EXEC 14 JUL 1997) Any student residence with a code or similar set of regulations is required to report annually on the operation of that code to General Faculties Council through its Campus Law Review Committee and its Executive Committee. (GFC 22 SEP 1997)” Attachment: (Pages 1-2): Annual Report of the Residence Discipline Statistics  ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "<For further information see ",
                "the link posted on the ",
                "Governance Toolkit section ",
                "Student Participation Protocol> ",
                "Those who have been informed: ",
                "• Andre Costopoulos, Vice-Provost, Dean of Students ",
                "• Resident students ",
                "• Residence Services ",
                "• Vice President, Facilities and Operations ",
                "• GFC Campus Law Review Committee ",
                "• University of Alberta Protective Services (UAPS) ",
                "Those who have been consulted: ",
                "• Sarah Wolgemuth, Assistant Dean, Student Life ",
                "• Residence Services ",
                "• Ancillary Services ",
                "• Doug Dawson, Associate Vice President, Ancillary Services ",
                "Those who are actively participating: Restorative Justice ",
                "• Residence Life Staff and Student Staff ",
                "• Sarah Wolgemuth during her role as Assistant Dean of Student, ",
                "Residence Life ",
                "• Aman Litt, Acting Assistant Dean of Student, Residence Life ",
                "• Craig Whitton, Residence Area Coordinator ",
                "• Salwa Kramps, Residence Life Administrative Assistant ",
                "Alignment/Compliance ",
                "Alignment with Guiding ",
                "Documents ",
                "For the Public Good, Institutional Values ",
                "Compliance with Legislation, ",
                "Policy and/or Procedure ",
                "Relevant to the Proposal ",
                "(please quote legislation and ",
                "include identifying section ",
                "numbers) ",
                "Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The PSLA give GFC ",
                "responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over ",
                "academic affairs and over student affairs, including authority concerning ",
                "student discipline. (Sections 26(1) and 31) In addition, Section 26(1)(o) ",
                "states GFC “has the authority to make recommendations to the board ",
                "with respect to […] the regulation of residences and dining halls[.][…]” ",
                "Further, PSLA Section 31(1) – Student Affairs states “The general ",
                "faculties council has general supervision of student affairs at a university ",
                "and in particular, but without restricting the generality, the general ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx ",
                " faculties council may […] (b) delegate its power to discipline students in ",
                "any particular case or generally to any person or body of persons, ",
                "subject to any conditions with respect to the exercise of any delegated ",
                "power that it considers proper [.] […]” ",
                "2. GFC Campus Law Review Committee Terms of Reference: ",
                "“Residence Discipline Reports: To receive annually reports from the ",
                "student residence associations on the number and disposition of ",
                "discipline cases in the residences, and forward the reports to the GFC ",
                "Executive Committee. (EXEC 14 JUL 1997) Any student residence with ",
                "a code or similar set of regulations is required to report annually on the ",
                "operation of that code to General Faculties Council through its Campus ",
                "Law Review Committee and its Executive Committee. (GFC 22 SEP ",
                "1997)” ",
                "Attachment: (Pages 1-2): Annual Report of the Residence Discipline Statistics "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "6",
            "Agenda Title": "Sexual Violence Policy: Development Update ",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2016-09-22",
            "Committee": "CLRC",
            "Proposed By": "André Costopoulos, Vice-Provost and Dean of Students Wayne Patterson, Executive Director, Human Resource Services and Acting Associate Vice-President (Human Resources) ",
            "Presenter": " André Costopoulos, Vice-Provost and Dean of Students Wayne Patterson, Executive Director, Human Resource Services and Acting Associate Vice-President (Human Resources) ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) Vice-President (Finance and Administration) The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) To provide an update and gather feedback on the first draft of the Sexual Violence Policy. Timeline/Implementation Date Vetting of Policy in Fall 2016.  Supplementary Notes and context The Government of Alberta has made it clear that they expect every institution to produce a stand-alone policy on sexual violence. A comprehensive consultation is underway in order to produce the best possible policy and procedure possible.   Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: Those who have been informed: •  Those who have been consulted: • President’s Executive Committee on Operations, August 25, 2016  • Consultant group drawn from:  Sexual Assault Centre, Women’s and Gender Studies, UAPS, Student Conduct, Office of Safe Disclosure and Human Rights, HIAR, UAI, Risk Management Services, Augustana Campus, Campus Saint-Jean, Students’ Union, Graduate Students’ Association, AAS:UA, NASA, Faculty and Staff Relations, Community Social Workers, Office of the Student Ombuds, ISMSS, Aboriginal Student Services Centre, Interfraternity Council, the Landing, Internal Audit Services, Counseling and Clinical Services, Student Success Centre, Athletics, students- and faculty-at-large • Others who have provided feedback to the consultants (e.g. staff at the Sexual Assault Centre, GSA Council, etc.) Those who are actively participating: • Policy development group: Deborah Eerkes (Student Conduct and Accountability), Sasha van der Klein (GSA), Francesca Ghossein (SU), Mike Bartkus (UAPS), Jaxine Oltean (Office of General Counsel), Dan Charlton (Human Resource Services), Helen Valianatos and Sarah Wolgemuth (Office of the Dean of Students) Alignment/Compliance  Alignment with Guiding Documents For the Public Good GOAL: SUSTAIN our people, our work, and the environment by attracting and stewarding the resources we need to deliver excellence to the benefit of all Albertans. OBJECTIVE 19: Prioritize and sustain student, faculty, and staff health, wellness, and safety by delivering proactive, relevant, responsive, and accessible services and initiatives. Strategy iii: Endorse a strong culture of safety awareness, knowledge, planning, and practice to ensure the safety of students, employees, and visitors to our campuses Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act  “Powers of the general faculties council 26(1) Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council is responsible for the academic affairs of the university and, without restricting the generality of the foregoing, has the authority to […] (o) - make recommendations to the board with respect to affiliation with other institutions, academic planning, campus planning, a building program, the budget, the regulation of residences and dining halls, procedures in respect of appointments, promotions, salaries, tenure and dismissals, and any other matters considered by the general faculties council to be of interest to the university;” 2. GFC Campus Law Review Committee Terms of Reference (3. Mandate) “E. Other GFC Regulations  1. From time to time the Chair of GFC CLRC will bring forward to GFC CLRC items where the Office of the Provost and Vice-\nPresident (Academic), in consultation with other units or officers of the University, is seeking the advice of the committee. These matters may include, but are not limited to, rules and regulations, other than discipline codes.” Attachments  1. First draft of Sexual Violence Policy (pages 1 – 7) ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "Those who have been informed: ",
                "• ",
                "Those who have been consulted: ",
                "• President’s Executive Committee on Operations, August 25, 2016 ",
                "• Consultant group drawn from:  Sexual Assault Centre, Women’s ",
                "and Gender Studies, UAPS, Student Conduct, Office of Safe ",
                "Disclosure and Human Rights, HIAR, UAI, Risk Management ",
                "Services, Augustana Campus, Campus Saint-Jean, Students’ ",
                "Union, Graduate Students’ Association, AAS:UA, NASA, Faculty ",
                "and Staff Relations, Community Social Workers, Office of the ",
                "Student Ombuds, ISMSS, Aboriginal Student Services Centre, ",
                "Interfraternity Council, the Landing, Internal Audit Services, ",
                "Counseling and Clinical Services, Student Success Centre, ",
                "Athletics, students- and faculty-at-large ",
                "• Others who have provided feedback to the consultants (e.g. staff ",
                "at the Sexual Assault Centre, GSA Council, etc.) ",
                "Those who are actively participating: ",
                "• Policy development group: Deborah Eerkes (Student Conduct ",
                "and Accountability), Sasha van der Klein (GSA), Francesca ",
                "Ghossein (SU), Mike Bartkus (UAPS), Jaxine Oltean (Office of ",
                "General Counsel), Dan Charlton (Human Resource Services), ",
                "Helen Valianatos and Sarah Wolgemuth (Office of the Dean of ",
                "Students) ",
                "Alignment/Compliance ",
                " Alignment with Guiding ",
                "Documents ",
                "For the Public Good ",
                "GOAL: SUSTAIN our people, our work, and the environment by ",
                "attracting and stewarding the resources we need to deliver excellence to ",
                "the benefit of all Albertans. ",
                "OBJECTIVE 19: Prioritize and sustain student, faculty, and staff health, ",
                "wellness, and safety by delivering proactive, relevant, responsive, and ",
                "accessible services and initiatives. ",
                "Strategy iii: Endorse a strong culture of safety awareness, knowledge, ",
                "planning, and practice to ensure the safety of students, employees, and ",
                "visitors to our campuses ",
                "Compliance with Legislation, ",
                "Policy and/or Procedure ",
                "Relevant to the Proposal ",
                "(please quote legislation and ",
                "include identifying section ",
                "numbers) ",
                "1. Post-Secondary Learning Act ",
                "“Powers of the general faculties council ",
                "26(1) Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council is ",
                "responsible for the academic affairs of the university and, without ",
                "restricting the generality of the foregoing, has the authority to […] ",
                "(o) - make recommendations to the board with respect to affiliation with ",
                "other institutions, academic planning, campus planning, a building ",
                "program, the budget, the regulation of residences and dining halls, ",
                "procedures in respect of appointments, promotions, salaries, tenure and ",
                "dismissals, and any other matters considered by the general faculties ",
                "council to be of interest to the university;” ",
                "2. GFC Campus Law Review Committee Terms of Reference (3. ",
                "Mandate) ",
                "“E. Other GFC Regulations ",
                "1. From time to time the Chair of GFC CLRC will bring forward to ",
                "GFC CLRC items where the Office of the Provost and Vice- ",
                "President (Academic), in consultation with other units or officers ",
                "of the University, is seeking the advice of the committee. These ",
                "matters may include, but are not limited to, rules and regulations, ",
                "other than discipline codes.” ",
                "Attachments ",
                "1. First draft of Sexual Violence Policy (pages 1 – 7) "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        }
    ],
    "url": "/static/CLRC/2016-09-22/Past-Meeting-Material.pdf"
}