{
    "Committee": "CLRC",
    "Date": "2017-09-28",
    "Title": "CLRC General Faculties Council - 2017-09-28",
    "Location": "2-31 South Academic Building (SAB)",
    "Time": "9:30 AM - 11:00 AM",
    "Attendees": [
        "9:30 AM - 11:00 AM",
        "Steven Penney, Chair",
        "Danielle Bouchard",
        "André Costopoulos",
        "Deborah Eerkes",
        "Marc Johnson",
        "Janice Johnson",
        "Michelle Kim",
        "Rebecca Nagel",
        "David Rayner",
        "Babak Soltannia",
        "Andrea Urbina",
        "Ilya Ushakov",
        "Richelle Volk",
        "NON-VOTING",
        "Michael Peterson",
        "Meg Brolley",
        "Bill Spinks",
        "Marion Haggarty-France,",
        "University Secretary"
    ],
    "Items": [
        {
            "Item No.": "4",
            "Agenda Title": "Committee Kick-Off and Orientation 2017-2018 ",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-09-28",
            "Committee": "CLRC",
            "Proposed By": "University Governance ",
            "Presenter": "s Marion Haggarty France, University Secretary Meg Brolley, GFC Secretary ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility General Faculties Council The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) To provide committee members with an overview of the principles under which GFC operates and how these inform the work and functioning of the committee. To orient members to the committee’s mandate, terms of reference, procedures and to committee member roles and responsibilities. Timeline/Implementation Date N/A Supplementary Notes and context Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) Those who are actively participating: • GFC Campus Law Review Committee (CLRC) Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents For the Public Good Objective 21 Encourage continuous improvement in administrative, governance, planning and stewardship systems, procedures, and policies that enable students, faculty, staff, and the institutions as a whole to achieve shared strategic goals. Report of the ad hoc Committee on Academic Governance Including Delegated Authority (April 21, 2017) Orientation and Education “Orientation sessions should provide both high level governance information and detailed information on the responsibilities of members, voting protocol, seating, how meetings are structured, question period procedures, how members can report back to their constituencies, and how to get items on the agenda. It is important to recognize that committee orientation must be designed in light of the fact that those at-large members who do not sit on GFC may require additional attention. The ad hoc committee recommends that  orientation and orientation materials should be provided in a number of modes and formats, including stand-alone orientation workshops, briefings at meetings, and through widely available written and online materials. A GFC member handbook or guidebook would be an ideal reference tool. In light of the unique character of collegial academic governance, GFC members should be encouraged to use orientation sessions to meet and get to know their fellow members and create networks which can provide informal support and community building opportunities. The following recommendations focus on improving orientation to prepare GFC and committee members to be informed and active participants in academic governance. Recommendation: THAT a variety of orientation sessions be offered including a general orientation to governance (Governance 101), followed by orientations more specific to GFC and GFC standing committees, and follow up sessions through the year Recommendation: THAT the responsibilities of members be clearly outlined in a core GFC document” Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) “Powers of general faculties council” 26(1)Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council is responsible for the academic affairs of the university” Attachments: 1. GFC Principles for Delegation of Authority 2. GFC Principles for Standing Committee Composition 3. GFC Roles and Responsibilities of Members 4. GFC Meeting Procedural Rules 5. Current Committee Terms of Reference ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) Those who are actively participating: ",
                "• GFC Campus Law Review Committee (CLRC) ",
                "Alignment/Compliance ",
                "Alignment with Guiding ",
                "Documents ",
                "For the Public Good ",
                "Objective 21 ",
                "Encourage continuous improvement in administrative, governance, ",
                "planning and stewardship systems, procedures, and policies that ",
                "enable students, faculty, staff, and the institutions as a whole to ",
                "achieve shared strategic goals. ",
                "Report of the ad hoc Committee on Academic Governance ",
                "Including Delegated Authority (April 21, 2017) ",
                "Orientation and Education ",
                "“Orientation sessions should provide both high level governance ",
                "information and detailed information on the responsibilities of ",
                "members, voting protocol, seating, how meetings are structured, ",
                "question period procedures, how members can report back to their ",
                "constituencies, and how to get items on the agenda. It is important to ",
                "recognize that committee orientation must be designed in light of the ",
                "fact that those at-large members who do not sit on GFC may require ",
                "additional attention. The ad hoc committee recommends that ",
                " orientation and orientation materials should be provided in a number ",
                "of modes and formats, including stand-alone orientation workshops, ",
                "briefings at meetings, and through widely available written and online ",
                "materials. A GFC member handbook or guidebook would be an ideal ",
                "reference tool. In light of the unique character of collegial academic ",
                "governance, GFC members should be encouraged to use orientation ",
                "sessions to meet and get to know their fellow members and create ",
                "networks which can provide informal support and community building ",
                "opportunities. The following recommendations focus on improving ",
                "orientation to prepare GFC and committee members to be informed ",
                "and active participants in academic governance. ",
                "Recommendation: THAT a variety of orientation sessions be offered ",
                "including a general orientation to governance (Governance 101), ",
                "followed by orientations more specific to GFC and GFC standing ",
                "committees, and follow up sessions through the year ",
                "Recommendation: THAT the responsibilities of members be clearly ",
                "outlined in a core GFC document” ",
                "Compliance with Legislation, ",
                "Policy and/or Procedure ",
                "Relevant to the Proposal ",
                "(please quote legislation and ",
                "include identifying section ",
                "numbers) ",
                "1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) ",
                "“Powers of general faculties council” ",
                "26(1)Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council is ",
                "responsible for the academic affairs of the university” ",
                "Attachments: ",
                "1. GFC Principles for Delegation of Authority ",
                "2. GFC Principles for Standing Committee Composition ",
                "3. GFC Roles and Responsibilities of Members ",
                "4. GFC Meeting Procedural Rules ",
                "5. Current Committee Terms of Reference "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "5",
            "Agenda Title": "Proposed Changes to the GFC Campus Law Review (CLRC) Terms of Reference ",
            "Motion": " THAT the GFC Campus Law Review Committee recommend that General Faculties Council approve the proposed changes to the GFC Campus Law Review Terms of Reference as set forth in Attachment 1, to take effect upon approval. ",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-09-28",
            "Committee": "CLRC",
            "Proposed By": "Steven Penney, Chair, GFC CLRC ",
            "Presenter": " Steven Penney, Chair, GFC CLRC ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility General Faculties Council The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) To approve the revised terms of reference for the GFC Campus Law Review Committee. The Impact of the Proposal is The committee terms of reference are being amended to reflect the GFC principles on delegated authority and committee composition approved by GFC on April 21, 2017. The Report of the ad hoc Committee on Academic Governance including Delegated Authority, endorsed by GFC on April 21, 2017, noted that CLRC currently works within a well defined mandate and the delegated authority given to the committee is also well defined. The benefits to having a Chair with legal training was emphasized in the report and has been added to the proposed terms of reference. No major changes were recommended.  Replaces/Revises (eg, policies, resolutions) Current committee terms of reference. Timeline/Implementation Date Upon final approval by GFC. Estimated Cost and funding source N/A Next Steps (ie.: Communications Plan, Implementation plans) N/A Supplementary Notes and context The proposed terms of reference reflect a standard template that will be used for all GFC standing committees which has been designed to provide increased clarity on mandate, responsibilities, and delegated authority.  Further changes to the CLRC terms of reference include: 1. Reference to student residence codes has been removed in accordance with the Board’s delegation of creation and revision of these codes to Residence Services (February 2011).  2. The addition that preference be given for a Chair who has legal training, which the Committee has discussed and agreed upon previously (CLRC meetings of January 25 and May 25, 2017). 3. The addition of one elected academic staff member from GFC to the committee composition in accordance with principle 1 of the Principles for Standing Committee Composition:  “Wherever possible, the majority of elected members of each standing committee should be drawn from the membership of GFC to provide tangible links between GFC and its standing committees and increase engagement of the greater GFC community.” 4. The voting status of ex-officio members has been revised to reflect their voting status in accordance with principle 3 of the Principles for Standing Committee Composition on GFC. 5. The terms will now note that CLRC makes recommendations to General Faculties Council, rather than to GFC Executive Committee. Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> Those who have been informed: • Campus Law Review Committee • General Faculties Council • Board of Governors has been provided with brief highlights of the work of the ad hoc Committee on Academic Governance including Delegated Authority Those who have been consulted: • Report of the ad hoc Committee on Academic Governance Including Delegated Authority Appendix 6: List of Consultations • Campus Law Review Committee • General Faculties Council • GFC Executive Committee Those who are actively participating: • ad hoc Committee on Academic Governance Including Delegated Authority • Campus Law Review Committee • General Faculties Council • GFC Executive Committee Approval Route (Governance) (including meeting dates) GFC Campus Law Review Committee - September 28, 2017 GFC Executive Committee - October 16, 2017 General Faculties Council - October 30, 2017 Final Approver General Faculties Council  Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents For the Public Good Objective 21: Encourage continuous improvement in administrative, governance, planning, and stewardship systems, procedures, and policies that enable students, faculty, staff, and the institution as a whole to achieve shared strategic goals. Principles for General Faculties Council Delegation of Authority Principles for General Faculties Council Standing Committee Composition Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) “Powers of general faculties council” 26(1) Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/%7E/media/Governance/Documents/GO04/ReportoftheadhoccommitteevEndorsedApril212017.pdf\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/%7E/media/Governance/Documents/GO04/ReportoftheadhoccommitteevEndorsedApril212017.pdf\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/en/%7E/media/Governance/Documents/GO05/GEN/Linked%20Documents%20on%20GFC%20Home%20Page/Principles_for_Delegation_of_Authority.pdf\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/en/%7E/media/Governance/Documents/GO05/GEN/Linked%20Documents%20on%20GFC%20Home%20Page/Principles_of_Committee_Composition.pdf\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/en/%7E/media/Governance/Documents/GO05/GEN/Linked%20Documents%20on%20GFC%20Home%20Page/Principles_of_Committee_Composition.pdf\n (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) is responsible for the academic affairs of the university […] (3) A general faculties council may delegate any of its powers, duties and functions under this Act, including the powers referred to in section 31, as it sees fit and may prescribe conditions governing the exercise or performance of any delegated power, duty or function, including the power of subdelegation.” 2. GFC Executive Committee Terms of Reference “5. Agendas of General Faculties Council  GFC has delegated to the Executive Committee the authority to decide which items are placed on a GFC Agenda, and the order in which those agenda items appear on each GFC agenda.  With respect to recommendations from other bodies and other GFC committees, however, the role of the Executive Committee shall be to examine and debate the substance of reports or recommendations and to decide if an item is ready to be forwarded to the full governing body.” Attachment: 1. Attachment 1:  Draft Terms of Reference 2. Attachment 2:  Current Terms of Reference ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "<For further information see ",
                "the link posted on the ",
                "Governance Toolkit section ",
                "Student Participation Protocol> ",
                "Those who have been informed: ",
                "• Campus Law Review Committee ",
                "• General Faculties Council ",
                "• Board of Governors has been provided with brief highlights of the ",
                "work of the ad hoc Committee on Academic Governance ",
                "including Delegated Authority ",
                "Those who have been consulted: ",
                "• Report of the ad hoc Committee on Academic Governance ",
                "Including Delegated Authority Appendix 6: List of Consultations ",
                "• Campus Law Review Committee ",
                "• General Faculties Council ",
                "• GFC Executive Committee ",
                "Those who are actively participating: ",
                "• ad hoc Committee on Academic Governance Including Delegated ",
                "Authority ",
                "• Campus Law Review Committee ",
                "• General Faculties Council ",
                "• GFC Executive Committee "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "GFC Campus Law Review Committee - September 28, 2017",
                "GFC Executive Committee - October 16, 2017",
                "General Faculties Council - October 30, 2017"
            ],
            "Final Approver": " General Faculties Council"
        }
    ],
    "url": "/static/CLRC/2017-09-28/Past-Meeting-Material.pdf"
}