{
    "Committee": "FDC",
    "Date": "Thursday, May 26, 2016 \n",
    "Title": "FDC General Faculties Council - 2016-05-26",
    "Location": "2-31 South Academic Building (SAB)",
    "Time": "1:30 PM - 4:30 PM",
    "Attendees": [
        "1:30 PM - 4:30 PM",
        "Don Hickey Vice-President (Facilities and Operations) and Chair (Delegate)",
        "Debbie Feisst Member, Academic Staff at-Large",
        "Sandeep Agrawal Member, Academic Staff",
        "Cheryl Harwardt Member, Academic Staff",
        "Pat Jansen Member, Vice-President (Facilities and Operations) (Delegate)",
        "Loren Kline Member, Elected Academic Staff Member, appointed from and by the",
        "Academic Planning Committee (FDC TofR)",
        "Suzanne Poirier Member, Support Staff",
        "Masoud Khademi Member (Delegate), Graduate Students' Association Vice-President",
        "(Academic) or Delegate",
        "Tiffany Rogers Member, Undergraduate Student Member at-large",
        "Ben Louie Member, University Architect, Resource",
        "Don Hickey Vice-President (Facilities and Operations) and Acting Chair, GFC FDC",
        "Pat Jansen Associate Vice-President (Facilities and Operations)",
        "Kelly Hopkin Senior Campus Planner and Architect",
        "Geoffrey Rode Director of Operations, Ancillary Services"
    ],
    "Items": [
        {
            "Item No.": "4",
            "Agenda Title": "Lister 5 – Schematic Design Report ",
            "Date": "2016-05-26",
            "Committee": "FDC",
            "Proposed By": "Doug Dawson, Associate Vice-President, Ancillary Services; Pat Jansen, Associate Vice-President, Planning and Project Delivery ",
            "Presenter": " Geoff Rode, Director of Operations, Ancillary Services, Sarah Wolgemuth, Assistant Dean of Students, Residence Life; Kelly Hopkin, Manager Campus Architecture, Facilities and Operations Subject Lister 5 – Schematic Design Report ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Vice-President (Facilities and Operations)  The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) This project will increase the amount of purpose-built student housing on campus in alignment with the university’s goal of accommodating 25 per cent of students in residence housing and in support of the goal of the University of Alberta to guarantee housing for all first-year students accepted by the university. The Impact of the Proposal is The proposed new first-year student housing residence will feature (200) double occupancy bedrooms and (60) single bedroom configurations organized around large common/social areas and washroom cores on each floor. The building will feature the appropriate amount of amenities or programmable space required to deliver support services for first-year students and foster a sense of community. Replaces/Revises (e.g., policies, resolutions) N/A Timeline/Implementation Date • GFC Facilities Development Committee – June 23, 2016 (for discussion/advice) Lister 5 - Design Development Report • Project site work will begin upon receipt of an Order-In-Council from the Government of Alberta for approval of University borrowing • Construction site mobilization – summer 2016 • Project occupancy – fall 2018 Estimated Cost N/A Sources of Funding N/A Notes N/A  Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents Long Range Development Plan (LRDP), 2015-2040 Strategy for Residences (May 2015) Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA):  The PSLA gives GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs (Section 26(1)) and provides that GFC may make recommendations to the Board of Governors on a building program and related matters (Section 26(1) (o)).  Section 18(1) of the PSLA give the Board of Governors the authority to make any bylaws “appropriate for the management, government and control of the university buildings and land.”  Section 19 of the Act requires that the Board “consider the recommendations of the general faculties council, if any, on matters of academic import prior to providing for (a) the support and maintenance of the university, (b) the betterment of existing buildings, (c) the  construction of any new buildings the board considers necessary for the purposes of the university [and] (d) the furnishing and equipping of the existing and newly erected buildings [.] […]” Section 67(1) of the Act governs the terms under which university land may be leased.  2.  GFC Facilities Development Committee (FDC) Terms of Reference – Section 3. Mandate of the Committee:  “[…] 2.  Delegation of Authority Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the terms of reference above, the Board of Governors and General Faculties Council have delegated to the Facilities Development Committee the following powers and authority: A.  Facilities 1.   To approve proposed General Space Programmes (Programs) for academic units. 2.   (i) To approve proposals concerning the design and use of all new facilities and the repurposing of existing facilities and to routinely report these decisions for information to the Board of Governors.      (ii) In considering such proposals, GFC FDC may provide advice, upon request, to the Provost and Vice-President (Academic), Vice-President (Facilities and Operations), and/or the University Architect (or their respective delegates) on the siting of such facilities.  (GFC SEP 29 2003) B.  Other Matters The Chair of FDC will bring forward to FDC items where the Office of the Provost and Vice-President (Academic) and/or the Office of the Vice-President (Facilities and Operations), in consultation with other units or officers of the University, is seeking the advice of the Committee. […]” 3.  UAPPOL Space Management Policy and Space Management Procedure:   The respective roles of GFC FDC and the Vice-President (Facilities and Operations) with regard to institutional space management are set out in this Board-approved Policy and attendant Procedure.  To access this policy suite on line, go to:  www.uappol.ualberta.ca. Routing (Include meeting dates) Consultative Route (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) • Introduced 2015-2040 Strategy for Residences to Garneau – June 22, 2015 • Updated Windsor Park Community League Executives on Lister 5 substantial development project – January 19, 2016  • Community Open House #1 – February 25, 2016 • Focus Group Consultation for students at Lister Centre – April 14, 2016 • Community Open House #2 – May 17, 2016 Approval Route (Governance) • Board of Governors (information) – 2015-2040 Strategy for http://www.uappol.ualberta.ca/\n (including meeting dates) Residences, June 19, 2015  • President’s Executive Committee – Operations (approval) – CEAR  and Opportunity Paper – September 29, 2015 • Board Finance and Property Committee – (approval) – Project Finance (Borrowing Resolution) and Order in Council – September 29, 2015 • Board of Governors (approval) – CEAR, Opportunity Paper, Project Finance (Borrowing Resolution) and Order in Council – October 16, 2015 Final Approver N/A Attachments:  1. Attachment 1 (2 pages) : Briefing Note 2. Attachment 2 (120 pages): Lister 5 – Schematic Design Report Final (May 10, 2016) ",
            "Approval Route": [],
            "Final Approver": ""
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "5",
            "Agenda Title": "East Campus Village 9 – Preliminary Design ",
            "Date": "2016-05-26",
            "Committee": "FDC",
            "Proposed By": "Doug Dawson, Associate Vice-President, Ancillary Services; Pat Jansen, Associate Vice-President, Planning and Project Delivery ",
            "Presenter": " Geoff Rode, Director of Operations, Ancillary Services, Sarah Wolgemuth, Assistant Dean of Students, Residence Life; Kelly Hopkin, Manager Campus Architecture, Facilities and Operations Subject East Campus Village 9 – Preliminary Design ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Vice-President (Facilities and Operations)  The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) This project will increase the amount of purpose-built student housing on campus in alignment with the university’s goal of accommodating 25 per cent of students in residence housing.  The Impact of the Proposal is A total of six houses east of 111 Street between 89 and 90 Avenues will be removed to make room for the development. The proposed new student housing residence will feature individual, self-contained apartments in (32) six-bedroom and (27) four-bedroom configurations designed to be attractive to international, rural and graduate students.  The buildings will contain the appropriate amount of amenity and/or programmable space required to deliver support services for students and foster a sense of community. Replaces/Revises (e.g., policies, resolutions) N/A Timeline/Implementation Date • GFC Facilities Development Committee – June 23, 2016 (for discussion/advice) East Campus Village 9 - Design Development Report • Project site work will begin upon receipt of an Order-In-Council from the Government of Alberta for approval of University borrowing • Construction site mobilization – summer 2016 • Project occupancy – fall 2018 Estimated Cost N/A Sources of Funding N/A Notes N/A  Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents Long Range Development Plan (LRDP), 2015-2040 Strategy for Residences (May 2015) Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA):  The PSLA gives GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs (Section 26(1)) and provides that GFC may make recommendations to the Board of Governors on a building program and related matters (Section 26(1) (o)).  Section 18(1) of the PSLA give the Board of Governors the authority to make any bylaws “appropriate for the management, government and control of the university buildings and land.”  Section 19 of the Act requires that the Board “consider the recommendations of the general faculties council, if any, on matters of academic import prior to providing for (a) the support and maintenance  of the university, (b) the betterment of existing buildings, (c) the construction of any new buildings the board considers necessary for the purposes of the university [and] (d) the furnishing and equipping of the existing and newly erected buildings [.] […]” Section 67(1) of the Act governs the terms under which university land may be leased.  2.  GFC Facilities Development Committee (FDC) Terms of Reference – Section 3. Mandate of the Committee:  “[…] 2.  Delegation of Authority Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the terms of reference above, the Board of Governors and General Faculties Council have delegated to the Facilities Development Committee the following powers and authority: A.  Facilities 1.   To approve proposed General Space Programmes (Programs) for academic units. 2.   (i) To approve proposals concerning the design and use of all new facilities and the repurposing of existing facilities and to routinely report these decisions for information to the Board of Governors.      (ii) In considering such proposals, GFC FDC may provide advice, upon request, to the Provost and Vice-President (Academic), Vice-President (Facilities and Operations), and/or the University Architect (or their respective delegates) on the siting of such facilities.  (GFC SEP 29 2003) B.  Other Matters The Chair of FDC will bring forward to FDC items where the Office of the Provost and Vice-President (Academic) and/or the Office of the Vice-President (Facilities and Operations), in consultation with other units or officers of the University, is seeking the advice of the Committee. […]” 3.  UAPPOL Space Management Policy and Space Management Procedure:   The respective roles of GFC FDC and the Vice-President (Facilities and Operations) with regard to institutional space management are set out in this Board-approved Policy and attendant Procedure.  To access this policy suite on line, go to:  www.uappol.ualberta.ca. Routing (Include meeting dates) Consultative Route (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) • 12 facilitated community dialogues with Garneau resulting in the creation of the Design Guidelines for Infill Development – March 2005 to September 2008 • Open House Sector 7 & 8 – March 19, 2012 • Introduced 2015-2040 Strategy for Residences to Garneau – June 22, 2015 • Community Open House #1 – February 25, 2016 • Community Open House #2 – May 17, 2016 http://www.uappol.ualberta.ca/\n Approval Route (Governance) (including meeting dates) • Facilities Development Committee (information) - Sector 8 Sector Plan, March 28, 2013  • Board of Governors (information) – 2015-2040 Strategy for Residences, June 19, 2015  • President’s Executive Committee – Operations (approval) – CEAR  and Opportunity Paper – September 29, 2015 • Board Finance and Property Committee – (approval) – Project Finance (Borrowing Resolution) and Order in Council – September 29, 2015 • Board of Governors (approval) – CEAR, Opportunity Paper, Project Finance (Borrowing Resolution) and Order in Council – October 16, 2015 Final Approver N/A Attachments:  1. Attachment 1 (2 pages) : Briefing Note 2. Attachment 2 (41 pages): ECV 9 - Preliminary Design Report (May 26, 2016) ",
            "Approval Route": "N/A",
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        }
    ],
    "PDF url": "FDC_Thursday, May 26, 2016 \n_Material.pdf"
}