{
    "Committee": "FDC",
    "Date": "2017-11-23",
    "Title": "FDC General Faculties Council - 2017-11-23",
    "Location": "3-07 South Academic Building (SAB)",
    "Time": "1:30 PM - 4:00 PM",
    "Attendees": [
        "1:30 PM - 4:00 PM",
        "Cheryl Harwardt, Acting Chair",
        "Debbie Feisst",
        "Chenyang Feng",
        "Joanna Harrington",
        "Robyn Paches",
        "Stephanie Russell",
        "Andrew Sharman",
        "NON-VOTING:",
        "Pat Jansen",
        "Ben Louie",
        "Wendy Rodgers",
        "Sandeep Agrawal",
        "Andrew MacIsaac",
        "Anna Vocioni",
        "Zizhao Wang"
    ],
    "Items": [
        {
            "Item No.": "4",
            "Agenda Title": "Faculty of Rehabilitation Medicine:  General Space Program ",
            "Motion": " THAT the GFC Facilities Development Committee approve, under delegated authority from General Faculties Council and on the recommendation of Planning and Project Delivery, the proposed Faculty of Rehabilitation Medicine: General Space Program (as set forth in Attachment 2) as the basis for further planning. ",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-11-23",
            "Committee": "FDC",
            "Proposed By": "Lorna Baker Perri, Director, Space Management, Facilities and Operations ",
            "Presenter": " Robert (Bob) Haennel, Interim Dean, Faculty of Rehabilitation Medicine Janet Koshuta, Principle, HFKS Architects Ltd. Lorna Baker Perri, Director, Space Management, Facilities and Operations ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Vice-President (Facilities and Operations) The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) To form the basis for furthering planning for the Faculty of Rehabilitation Medicine. The Impact of the Proposal is Provide an analysis of the space requirements; both present and future for the Faculty of Rehabilitation Medicine. Replaces/Revises (eg, policies, resolutions) Update the 2001 General Space Program. Timeline/Implementation Date N/A Estimated Cost and funding source N/A Next Steps (ie.: Communications Plan, Implementation plans) N/A Supplementary Notes and context N/A Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) Those who have been informed: • Deputy Provost • Vice President, Facilities and Operations • AVP, Planning and Project Delivery Those who have been consulted: • Representatives from the Faculty’s departments, centres and institutes. Those who are actively participating: • Interim Dean, Faculty of Rehabilitation Medicine • Director, Space Management • GFC FDC (November 23, 2017) Approval Route (Governance) (including meeting dates) GFC Facilities Development Committee (November 23, 2017) – for approval Final Approver GFC Facilities Development Committee   Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents Institutional Strategic Plan – For the Public Good SUSTAIN our people, our work, and the environment by attracting and stewarding the resources we need to deliver excellence to the benefit of all. 23. Objective: Ensure that the University of Alberta’s campuses, facilities, utility, and information technology infrastructure can continue to meet the needs and strategic goals of the University.        i. Strategy: Secure and sustain funding to plan, operate, expand, renew, and optimize the use of campus infrastructure to meet evolving teaching and research priorities. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA):   The PSLA gives GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs (Section 26(1)) and provides that GFC may make recommendations to the Board of Governors on a building program and related matters (Section 26(1) (o)).   Section 18(1) of the PSLA give the Board of Governors the authority to make any bylaws “appropriate for the management, government and control of the university buildings and land.”   Section 19 of the Act requires that the Board “consider the recommendations of the general faculties council, if any, on matters of academic import prior to providing for (a) the support and maintenance of the university, (b) the betterment of existing buildings, (c) the construction of any new buildings the board considers necessary for the purposes of the university [and] (d) the furnishing and equipping of the existing and newly erected buildings [.] […]”  Section 67(1) of the Act governs the terms under which university land may be leased.  GFC Facilities Development Committee Terms of Reference 1. Mandate and Role of the Committee The GFC Facilities Development Committee (FDC) is a standing committee of GFC with delegated authority to make recommendations to General Faculties Council and the Board of Governors. The committee reviews and recommends on general space and functional programs, the design and use of facilities, and policies related to facilities and planning. 2.  Areas of Responsibility a. Policy with respect to planning and facilities b. General Space Programs for Academic Units c. Design and use of all new facilities and repurposing of existing facilities d. Other matters within the purview of the committee 4. Delegated Authority from General Faculties Council and/or the Board of Governors 4.1 To approve proposed General Space Programs for academic units UAPPOL  Space Management Policy and Space Management Procedure The respective roles of GFC FDC and the Vice-President (Facilities and Operations) with regard to institutional space management are set out in the Board-approved Policy and attendant Procedure. Attachments  1.  Briefing Note (2 pages) 2.  Faculty of Rehabilitation Medicine – General Space Program Report (102 pages) ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "Those who have been informed: ",
                "• Deputy Provost ",
                "• Vice President, Facilities and Operations ",
                "• AVP, Planning and Project Delivery ",
                "Those who have been consulted: ",
                "• Representatives from the Faculty’s departments, centres and ",
                "institutes. ",
                "Those who are actively participating: ",
                "• Interim Dean, Faculty of Rehabilitation Medicine ",
                "• Director, Space Management ",
                "• GFC FDC (November 23, 2017) "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "GFC Facilities Development Committee (November 23, 2017) – for",
                "approval"
            ],
            "Final Approver": " GFC Facilities Development Committee"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "5",
            "Agenda Title": "Augustana Campus Long Range Development Plan Amendment : November 29, 2017 Community Open House #2 ",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-11-23",
            "Committee": "FDC",
            "Proposed By": "Andrew Sharman, Vice-President (Facilities and Operations) ",
            "Presenter": " Phil Rinn, Manager, Campus Planning and Development , Office of the University Architect, Facilities and Operations Emily Ball, Community Relations Officer, Government and Community Relations, University Relations ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Vice-President (Facilities and Operations)  The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) Provide the GFC Facilities Development Committee with a summary of community feedback per the September 28 Community Open House #1 and proposed response to the comments to be presented at Community Open House #2 on November 29, 2017 per the community consultation protocol prescribed in Appendix 18 of the LRDP.  Timeline/Implementation Date Following the second community engagement  on the proposed amendment to the Augustana Campus Long Range Development Plan, a formal report for the Augustana Campus LRDP amendment will be submitted to GFC Facilities Development Committee and Board Finance and Property Committee in February 2018 for Board of Governors approval on March 16, 2018. Supplementary Notes and context Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) Those who have been informed: Those who have been consulted: • Expanded campus stakeholders from Augustana Campus and Facilities and Operations • City of Camrose Planning and Engineering Officials • GFC Facilities Development Committee (FDC) (September 25, 2017 and November 23, 2017) Those who are actively participating: • Augustana Campus LRDP Amendment Steering Committee with representations from: • the Dean’s Office • Faculty members and Administrative Professional Officers • President of Student Association and student body  • Alumni  • Government and Community Relations, University Relations  • Office of University Architect, Facilities and Operations • GFC Facilities Development Committee (FDC) (September 25, 2017 and November 23, 2017)     Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents Comprehensive Institutional Plan Institutional Strategic Plan - For the Public Good  BUILD... 1. OBJECTIVE: Build a diverse, inclusive community of exceptional undergraduate and graduate students from Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, and the world. i. Strategy: Develop and implement an undergraduate and graduate recruitment strategy to attract top students from across diverse communities in Alberta and Canada, leveraging our strengths as a comprehensive research-\nintensive, multi-campus university with options for francophone and rural liberal arts education. ii. Strategy: Develop and implement an undergraduate and graduate recruitment and retention strategy to attract Indigenous students from across Alberta and Canada. 4. OBJECTIVE: Develop, in consultation and collaboration with internal and external community stakeholders, a thoughtful, respectful, meaningful, and sustainable response to the report of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada. vi.       Strategy: Foster learning opportunities across our campuses that enable student, staff, and faculty participation in reconciliation. 5. OBJECTIVE: Build and strengthen trust, connection, and a sense of belonging among all members of the university community through a focus on shared values. i. Strategy: Encourage and support institution-wide initiatives, services, and programs, such as arts and cultural activities, intramurals, student groups, volunteering, clubs, and centres, which bring students from all faculties into community with each other. EXPERIENCE... 8. OBJECTIVE: Create and facilitate co-curricular and extracurricular learning experiences for undergraduate and graduate students that enable their self-discovery and give them the skills to use their talents, creativity, and curiosity to contribute as future citizens and leaders. i. Strategy: Increase the opportunities for all undergraduate and graduate students to experience the benefits of living on campus, including guaranteeing the offer of a place in residence to every first-year undergraduate student.  9. OBJECTIVE: Enhance, support, and mobilize the unique experiences and cultures of all University of Alberta campuses to the benefit of the university as a whole. i. Strategy: Facilitate and deepen inter-campus connections, communication, and collaborations with Augustana Campus, and ensure that it is strengthened as a leading liberal arts college, and as a living laboratory for teaching and learning innovation, to the benefit of the entire university. EXCEL... 13. OBJECTIVE: Enable University of Alberta researchers to succeed and excel. iv. Strategy: Secure and sustain funding for the continuous evolution and operation of research facilities and resources (e.g., libraries, labs, Research Services Office, museums and collections, performance spaces, fine arts facilities, and U of A Press) to meet the changing needs of our broad-based research community. ENGAGE... 16. OBJECTIVE: Enhance, increase, and sustain reciprocal, mutually beneficial community relations, community engagement, and community-\nengaged research and scholarship that will extend the reach, effectiveness, benefit, and value of our university-community connections. iv. Strategy: Continue to build mutually beneficial, authentic relationships with alumni and donors. v. Strategy: Welcome increased community access, participation, and engagement at all University of Alberta sites, such as our downtown campus at Enterprise Square and our sports facilities at South Campus. 18. OBJECTIVE: Seek, build, strengthen, and sustain partnerships with local, national, or international research agencies, governments, government ministries and agencies, universities, Indigenous communities, libraries, not-for-profits, industry, business, and community organizations. iii. Strategy: Encourage municipal, provincial, national, and international collaborations, partnerships, and MOUs at the institutional, faculty, department, unit, and individual levels. iv. Strategy: Seek, enhance, and support partnerships with industry, including small and medium enterprises.  SUSTAIN... 19. OBJECTIVE: Prioritize and sustain student, faculty, and staff health, wellness, and safety by delivering proactive, relevant, responsive, and accessible services and initiatives. i. Strategy: Develop an integrated, institution-wide health and wellness strategy, which increases the reach and effectiveness of existing health and wellness resources, programs, and services, and promotes resilience and work-\nlife balance. iii. Strategy: Endorse a strong culture of safety awareness, knowledge, planning, and practice to ensure the safety of students, employees, and visitors to our campuses.  20. OBJECTIVE: Continue to build and support an integrated approach to social, economic, and environmental sustainability that incorporates teaching and learning, research, outreach, capacity building, and the operations that support them. ii. Strategy: Embed social, economic, and environmental sustainability into the development and care of the university’s natural and built environments. 23. OBJECTIVE: Ensure that the University of Alberta’s campuses, facilities, utility, and information technology infrastructure can continue to meet the needs and strategic goals of the university. ii. Strategy: Build, operate, and maintain undergraduate and graduate student housing to support our students’ academic success and sense of belonging to the university community. iii. Strategy: Secure and sustain funding to plan, operate, expand, renew, and optimize the use of campus infrastructure to meet evolving teaching and research priorities. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA):   The PSLA gives GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs (Section 26(1)) and provides that GFC may make recommendations to the Board of Governors on a building program and related matters (Section 26(1) (o)).   Section 18(1) of the PSLA give the Board of Governors the authority to make any bylaws “appropriate for the management, government and control of the university buildings and land.”   Section 19 of the Act requires that the Board “consider the recommendations of the general faculties council, if any, on matters of academic import prior to providing for (a) the support and maintenance of the university, (b) the betterment of existing buildings, (c) the construction of any new buildings the board considers necessary for the purposes of the university [and] (d) the furnishing and equipping of the existing and newly erected buildings [.] […]”  Section 67(1) of the Act governs the terms under which university land may be leased.  GFC Facilities Development Committee Terms of Reference 1. Mandate and Role of the Committee The GFC Facilities Development Committee (FDC) is a standing committee of GFC with delegated authority to make recommendations to General Faculties Council and the Board of Governors. The committee reviews and recommends on general space and functional programs, the design and use of facilities, and policies related to facilities and planning. 2.  Areas of Responsibility a. Policy with respect to planning and facilities b. General Space Programs for Academic Units c. Design and use of all new facilities and repurposing of existing facilities d. Other matters within the purview of the committee 5. Responsibilities Additional to delegated Authority FDC is responsible for making recommendations to APC concerning policy matters with respect to the following: 5.1 Planning a. Comprehensive facilities development plan b. Long Range Development Plan (LRDP) Attachments  1. Attachment 1 (page 1) – Briefing Notes 2. Attachment 2 (pages 1-8) – Open House #1 Evaluation Summary 3. Attachment 3 (boards 1-17) – Augustana Campus Long Range Development Plan Amendment – Open House #2, November 29, 2017 ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "Those who have been informed: ",
                "Those who have been consulted: ",
                "• Expanded campus stakeholders from Augustana Campus and ",
                "Facilities and Operations ",
                "• City of Camrose Planning and Engineering Officials ",
                "• GFC Facilities Development Committee (FDC) (September 25, ",
                "2017 and November 23, 2017) ",
                "Those who are actively participating: ",
                "• Augustana Campus LRDP Amendment Steering Committee with ",
                "representations from: ",
                "• the Dean’s Office ",
                "• Faculty members and Administrative Professional Officers ",
                "• President of Student Association and student body ",
                "• Alumni ",
                "• Government and Community Relations, University Relations ",
                "• Office of University Architect, Facilities and Operations ",
                "• GFC Facilities Development Committee (FDC) (September 25, 2017 ",
                "and November 23, 2017) ",
                "    Alignment/Compliance ",
                "Alignment with Guiding ",
                "Documents ",
                "Comprehensive Institutional Plan ",
                "Institutional Strategic Plan - For the Public Good ",
                "BUILD... ",
                "1. OBJECTIVE: Build a diverse, inclusive community of exceptional ",
                "undergraduate and graduate students from Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, ",
                "and the world. ",
                "i. Strategy: Develop and implement an undergraduate and ",
                "graduate recruitment strategy to attract top students from ",
                "across diverse communities in Alberta and Canada, ",
                "leveraging our strengths as a comprehensive research- ",
                "intensive, multi-campus university with options for ",
                "francophone and rural liberal arts education. ",
                "ii. Strategy: Develop and implement an undergraduate and ",
                "graduate recruitment and retention strategy to attract ",
                "Indigenous students from across Alberta and Canada. ",
                "4. OBJECTIVE: Develop, in consultation and collaboration with internal ",
                "and external community stakeholders, a thoughtful, respectful, ",
                "meaningful, and sustainable response to the report of the Truth and ",
                "Reconciliation Commission of Canada. ",
                "vi.       Strategy: Foster learning opportunities across our campuses ",
                "that enable student, staff, and faculty participation in ",
                "reconciliation. ",
                "5. OBJECTIVE: Build and strengthen trust, connection, and a sense of ",
                "belonging among all members of the university community through a ",
                "focus on shared values. ",
                "i. Strategy: Encourage and support institution-wide initiatives, ",
                "services, and programs, such as arts and cultural activities, ",
                "intramurals, student groups, volunteering, clubs, and centres, ",
                "which bring students from all faculties into community with ",
                "each other. ",
                "EXPERIENCE... ",
                "8. OBJECTIVE: Create and facilitate co-curricular and extracurricular ",
                "learning experiences for undergraduate and graduate students that ",
                "enable their self-discovery and give them the skills to use their talents, ",
                "creativity, and curiosity to contribute as future citizens and leaders. ",
                "i. Strategy: Increase the opportunities for all undergraduate and ",
                "graduate students to experience the benefits of living on ",
                "campus, including guaranteeing the offer of a place in ",
                "residence to every first-year undergraduate student. ",
                " 9. OBJECTIVE: Enhance, support, and mobilize the unique experiences ",
                "and cultures of all University of Alberta campuses to the benefit of the ",
                "university as a whole. ",
                "i. Strategy: Facilitate and deepen inter-campus connections, ",
                "communication, and collaborations with Augustana Campus, ",
                "and ensure that it is strengthened as a leading liberal arts ",
                "college, and as a living laboratory for teaching and learning ",
                "innovation, to the benefit of the entire university. ",
                "EXCEL... ",
                "13. OBJECTIVE: Enable University of Alberta researchers to succeed ",
                "and excel. ",
                "iv. Strategy: Secure and sustain funding for the continuous ",
                "evolution and operation of research facilities and resources ",
                "(e.g., libraries, labs, Research Services Office, museums and ",
                "collections, performance spaces, fine arts facilities, and U of ",
                "A Press) to meet the changing needs of our broad-based ",
                "research community. ",
                "ENGAGE... ",
                "16. OBJECTIVE: Enhance, increase, and sustain reciprocal, mutually ",
                "beneficial community relations, community engagement, and community- ",
                "engaged research and scholarship that will extend the reach, ",
                "effectiveness, benefit, and value of our university-community ",
                "connections. ",
                "iv. Strategy: Continue to build mutually beneficial, authentic ",
                "relationships with alumni and donors. ",
                "v. Strategy: Welcome increased community access, ",
                "participation, and engagement at all University of Alberta ",
                "sites, such as our downtown campus at Enterprise Square ",
                "and our sports facilities at South Campus. ",
                "18. OBJECTIVE: Seek, build, strengthen, and sustain partnerships with ",
                "local, national, or international research agencies, governments, ",
                "government ministries and agencies, universities, Indigenous ",
                "communities, libraries, not-for-profits, industry, business, and community ",
                "organizations. ",
                "iii. Strategy: Encourage municipal, provincial, national, and ",
                "international collaborations, partnerships, and MOUs at the ",
                "institutional, faculty, department, unit, and individual levels. ",
                "iv. Strategy: Seek, enhance, and support partnerships with ",
                "industry, including small and medium enterprises. ",
                " SUSTAIN... ",
                "19. OBJECTIVE: Prioritize and sustain student, faculty, and staff health, ",
                "wellness, and safety by delivering proactive, relevant, responsive, and ",
                "accessible services and initiatives. ",
                "i. Strategy: Develop an integrated, institution-wide health and ",
                "wellness strategy, which increases the reach and ",
                "effectiveness of existing health and wellness resources, ",
                "programs, and services, and promotes resilience and work- ",
                "life balance. ",
                "iii. Strategy: Endorse a strong culture of safety awareness, ",
                "knowledge, planning, and practice to ensure the safety of ",
                "students, employees, and visitors to our campuses. ",
                "20. OBJECTIVE: Continue to build and support an integrated approach ",
                "to social, economic, and environmental sustainability that incorporates ",
                "teaching and learning, research, outreach, capacity building, and the ",
                "operations that support them. ",
                "ii. Strategy: Embed social, economic, and environmental ",
                "sustainability into the development and care of the ",
                "university’s natural and built environments. ",
                "23. OBJECTIVE: Ensure that the University of Alberta’s campuses, ",
                "facilities, utility, and information technology infrastructure can continue to ",
                "meet the needs and strategic goals of the university. ",
                "ii. Strategy: Build, operate, and maintain undergraduate and ",
                "graduate student housing to support our students’ academic ",
                "success and sense of belonging to the university community. ",
                "iii. Strategy: Secure and sustain funding to plan, operate, ",
                "expand, renew, and optimize the use of campus infrastructure ",
                "to meet evolving teaching and research priorities. ",
                "Compliance with Legislation, ",
                "Policy and/or Procedure ",
                "Relevant to the Proposal ",
                "(please quote legislation and ",
                "include identifying section ",
                "numbers) ",
                "Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): ",
                "The PSLA gives GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board ",
                "of Governors, over academic affairs (Section 26(1)) and provides that ",
                "GFC may make recommendations to the Board of Governors on a ",
                "building program and related matters (Section 26(1) (o)). ",
                "Section 18(1) of the PSLA give the Board of Governors the authority to ",
                "make any bylaws “appropriate for the management, government and ",
                "control of the university buildings and land.” ",
                "Section 19 of the Act requires that the Board “consider the ",
                "recommendations of the general faculties council, if any, on matters of ",
                "academic import prior to providing for (a) the support and maintenance ",
                "of the university, (b) the betterment of existing buildings, (c) the ",
                "construction of any new buildings the board considers necessary for the ",
                "purposes of the university [and] (d) the furnishing and equipping of the ",
                "existing and newly erected buildings [.] […]” ",
                "Section 67(1) of the Act governs the terms under which university land ",
                "may be leased. ",
                "GFC Facilities Development Committee Terms of Reference ",
                "1. Mandate and Role of the Committee ",
                "The GFC Facilities Development Committee (FDC) is a standing ",
                "committee of GFC with delegated authority to make recommendations to ",
                "General Faculties Council and the Board of Governors. The committee ",
                "reviews and recommends on general space and functional programs, the ",
                "design and use of facilities, and policies related to facilities and planning. ",
                "2.  Areas of Responsibility ",
                "a. Policy with respect to planning and facilities ",
                "b. General Space Programs for Academic Units ",
                "c. Design and use of all new facilities and repurposing of existing ",
                "facilities ",
                "d. Other matters within the purview of the committee ",
                "5. Responsibilities Additional to delegated Authority ",
                "FDC is responsible for making recommendations to APC concerning ",
                "policy matters with respect to the following: ",
                "5.1 Planning ",
                "a. Comprehensive facilities development plan ",
                "b. Long Range Development Plan (LRDP) ",
                "Attachments ",
                "1. Attachment 1 (page 1) – Briefing Notes ",
                "2. Attachment 2 (pages 1-8) – Open House #1 Evaluation Summary ",
                "3. Attachment 3 (boards 1-17) – Augustana Campus Long Range Development Plan Amendment – Open ",
                "House #2, November 29, 2017 "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        }
    ],
    "url": "/static/FDC/2017-11-23/Past-Meeting-Material.pdf"
}