{
    "Committee": "FDC",
    "Date": "2017-02-16",
    "Title": "FDC General Faculties Council - 2017-02-16",
    "Location": "2-31 South Academic Building (SAB)",
    "Time": "1:30 PM - 4:30 PM",
    "Attendees": [
        "1:30 PM - 4:30 PM",
        "Wendy Rodgers Chair (Delegate), Provost and Vice-President (Academic) and Deputy",
        "Provost",
        "Sandeep Agrawal Member, Academic Staff at-Large",
        "Cheryl Harwardt Member, Academic Staff, and Acting Chair",
        "Loren Kline Member, Elected Academic Staff Member, appointed from and by the",
        "Academic Planning Committee",
        "Andrew MacIsaac Member, Academic Staff at-Large",
        "Andrew Sharman Member, Vice-President (Facilities and Operations)",
        "Rob Shields Member, Academic Staff at-Large",
        "Ali Talaei Member (Delegate), Graduate Students' Association Vice-President",
        "(Academic)",
        "Robyn Paches Member (Delegate), Students’ Union (SU) Vice-President (Academic)",
        "Pat Jansen Member (Delegate), Associate Vice-President (Facilities and Operations),",
        "Resource",
        "Ben Louie Member, University Architect, Resource",
        "Wendy Rodgers Deputy Provost and Chair, GFC FDC",
        "Ben Louie University Architect",
        "Pat Jansen Associate Vice-President, Planning and Project Delivery (Facilities and",
        "Operations)",
        "Stephen Boyd Principal, Dialog",
        "Lee Foote Director, Devonian Botanic Garden (DBG)",
        "Steve Patten Member, GFC ad hoc Committee on Academic Governance Including",
        "Delegated Authority and Professor, Faculty of Arts",
        "Frank Robinson Member, GFC ad hoc Committee on Academic Governance Including",
        "Delegated Authority and Professor, Faculty of Agricultural, Life and",
        "Environmental Sciences (ALES)",
        "Robyn Paches Vice-President (Operations and Finance), Students’ Union (SU)",
        "Andrea Patrick, Acting Coordinator, GFC Facilities Development Committee"
    ],
    "Items": [
        {
            "Item No.": "4",
            "Agenda Title": "Terms of Reference TOUR of GFC Standing Committees ",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-02-16",
            "Committee": "FDC",
            "Proposed By": "Mark Loewen, Chair, Ad Hoc Committee on Academic Governance including Delegated Authority ",
            "Presenter": " Steve Patten, Frank Robinson (Members, Ad Hoc Committee on Academic Governance including Delegated Authority) ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility General Faculties Council The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) Members of the ad hoc Committee are touring GFC Standing Committees to solicit input, perspectives, and innovative ideas on moving Academic Governance into the future. Your ideas and suggestions will contribute to further discussions and consultation and inform the final report and recommendations which come forward to GFC in April.  This is your opportunity to contribute to the transformation of academic governance at the University of Alberta.  As members of this committee, you are uniquely placed to provide input and ideas to the ad hoc committee – the chance to make a difference is now. If you have additional ideas after the meeting, it is not too late; contact any member of the ad hoc committee to share your ideas. But ideally you will share with your committee colleagues during the meeting and allow the synergy of the group to build upon ideas. The following questions are provided to start the conversation and Committee members are encouraged to reflect on these, and any other issues you think of, and come prepared for a discussion of whether and what changes you’d like to see. •   Are there reasons for clarifying or changing the mandate of your committee? •   Can improvements be made to the operations of your committee, including how issues come to your attention and how you interact with other GFC committees? •   Is the membership and composition of the Standing Committee appropriate? •   Is there clarity on your Committee’s relationship to full GFC in terms of when issues and decisions should go to GFC and how to report back to GFC? •   Upon reflection, have there been times when an item has been  approved with delegated authority that should have gone to full GFC? Timeline/Implementation Date Terms of Reference TOUR of GFC Standing Committees – February/March 2017 Endorsement of revised Terms of Reference – March/April 2017 Final Report and Recommendations - GFC on Friday, April 21, 2017 Supplementary Notes and context In September 2016, General Faculties Council established the Ad Hoc Committee on Academic Governance including Delegated Authority.  The Committee has worked since then to investigate the pressing issues within academic governance, to inform them of current practice, and to develop recommendations based upon what they have learned.   For more background information on previous work done as part of this academic governance review please contact the GFC Secretary at meg.brolley@ualberta.ca . Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> Those who have been informed: • General Faculties Council – November 21, 2016; January 30, 2017 Those who have been consulted: • Vice Provosts’ Council – January 16, 2017 • GFC Executive Committee – October 31, 2016, January 16, 2017 • Deans’ Council – January 18, 2017 • GFC Standing Committee Chairs – February 1, 2017 • Office of the President – ongoing  • Office of the Provost – ongoing  • Office of the Vice President (Research) – January 17, 2017 • University Research Policy Committee – January 27, 2017 • Office of the Registrar – January 26, 2017 • Office of the Dean of Students – ongoing  • Board of Governors Chair – February 3, 2017 Those who are actively participating: • Ad Hoc Committee on Academic Governance including Delegated Authority – ongoing  Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents For the Public Good Strategic Goals  Goal:  EXCEL as individuals, and together, sustain a culture that fosters and champions distinction and distinctiveness in teaching, learning, research, and service. Goal:  SUSTAIN our people, our work, and the environment by attracting and stewarding the resources we need to deliver excellence to the benefit of all Albertans. Objective 21:  Encourage continuous improvement in administrative, mailto:meg.brolley@ualberta.ca\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\n governance, planning and stewardship systems, procedures, and policies that enable students, faculty, staff, and the institutions as a whole to achieve shared strategic goals. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) “Powers of general faculties council” 26(1)Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council is responsible for the academic affairs of the university […]  (3) A general faculties council may delegate any of its powers, duties and functions under this Act, including the powers referred to in section 31, as it sees fit and may prescribe conditions governing the exercise or performance of any delegated power, duty or function, including the power of subdelegation.” 2. GFC Ad Hoc Committee on Academic Governance including Delegated Authority Terms of Reference 1. To examine the terms of reference of all GFC standing committees paying particular attention to:  • Mandate (structured appropriately? Duplication? Gaps? Current practice) • Delegated authority  • Committee composition (appropriate size and membership)  • Current context  2. To identify the key elements in each GFC Standing Committee’s role as it relates to the responsibilities and efficacy of the overall academic governance of GFC.  3. To initiate discussion on any other matters the ad hoc committee considers relevant to its purpose and to provide recommendations on other matters related to academic governance that arise during the review.  4. To be informed by the GFC discussions in 2015-16 (March 21 materials and minutes; May 2 materials and minutes), including documents such as ‘A Reflection on the State of Academic Governance at the University of Alberta’ and other literature and best practices in the field.  5. To provide recommendations on revisions to the terms of reference including delegated authority for GFC and GFC standing committees.  6. Identify further steps (ie administrative delegations, faculty councils, UAPPOL).  7. Provide regular status reports to GFC. Attachments: 1. Terms of Reference (6 pages) 2. Guiding Principles of the Ad Hoc Committee on Academic Governance including Delegated Authority (2 pages)  ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "<For further information see ",
                "the link posted on the ",
                "Governance Toolkit section ",
                "Student Participation Protocol> ",
                "Those who have been informed: ",
                "• General Faculties Council – November 21, 2016; January 30, ",
                "2017 ",
                "Those who have been consulted: ",
                "• Vice Provosts’ Council – January 16, 2017 ",
                "• GFC Executive Committee – October 31, 2016, January 16, 2017 ",
                "• Deans’ Council – January 18, 2017 ",
                "• GFC Standing Committee Chairs – February 1, 2017 ",
                "• Office of the President – ongoing ",
                "• Office of the Provost – ongoing ",
                "• Office of the Vice President (Research) – January 17, 2017 ",
                "• University Research Policy Committee – January 27, 2017 ",
                "• Office of the Registrar – January 26, 2017 ",
                "• Office of the Dean of Students – ongoing ",
                "• Board of Governors Chair – February 3, 2017 ",
                "Those who are actively participating: ",
                "• Ad Hoc Committee on Academic Governance including ",
                "Delegated Authority – ongoing ",
                "Alignment/Compliance ",
                "Alignment with Guiding ",
                "Documents ",
                "For the Public Good ",
                "Strategic Goals ",
                "Goal:  EXCEL as individuals, and together, sustain a culture that fosters ",
                "and champions distinction and distinctiveness in teaching, learning, ",
                "research, and service. ",
                "Goal:  SUSTAIN our people, our work, and the environment by attracting ",
                "and stewarding the resources we need to deliver excellence to the ",
                "benefit of all Albertans. ",
                "Objective 21:  Encourage continuous improvement in administrative, ",
                "mailto:meg.brolley@ualberta.ca ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx ",
                " governance, planning and stewardship systems, procedures, and ",
                "policies that enable students, faculty, staff, and the institutions as a ",
                "whole to achieve shared strategic goals. ",
                "Compliance with Legislation, ",
                "Policy and/or Procedure ",
                "Relevant to the Proposal ",
                "(please quote legislation and ",
                "include identifying section ",
                "numbers) ",
                "1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) ",
                "“Powers of general faculties council” ",
                "26(1)Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council ",
                "is responsible for the academic affairs of the university […] ",
                "(3) A general faculties council may delegate any of its powers, duties ",
                "and functions under this Act, including the powers referred to in ",
                "section 31, as it sees fit and may prescribe conditions governing the ",
                "exercise or performance of any delegated power, duty or function, ",
                "including the power of subdelegation.” ",
                "2. GFC Ad Hoc Committee on Academic Governance including ",
                "Delegated Authority Terms of Reference ",
                "1. To examine the terms of reference of all GFC standing ",
                "committees paying particular attention to: ",
                "• Mandate (structured appropriately? Duplication? Gaps? ",
                "Current practice) ",
                "• Delegated authority ",
                "• Committee composition (appropriate size and membership) ",
                "• Current context ",
                "2. To identify the key elements in each GFC Standing Committee’s ",
                "role as it relates to the responsibilities and efficacy of the overall ",
                "academic governance of GFC. ",
                "3. To initiate discussion on any other matters the ad hoc committee ",
                "considers relevant to its purpose and to provide recommendations ",
                "on other matters related to academic governance that arise during ",
                "the review. ",
                "4. To be informed by the GFC discussions in 2015-16 (March 21 ",
                "materials and minutes; May 2 materials and minutes), including ",
                "documents such as ‘A Reflection on the State of Academic ",
                "Governance at the University of Alberta’ and other literature and best ",
                "practices in the field. ",
                "5. To provide recommendations on revisions to the terms of ",
                "reference including delegated authority for GFC and GFC standing ",
                "committees. ",
                "6. Identify further steps (ie administrative delegations, faculty ",
                "councils, UAPPOL). ",
                "7. Provide regular status reports to GFC. ",
                "Attachments: ",
                "1. Terms of Reference (6 pages) ",
                "2. Guiding Principles of the Ad Hoc Committee on Academic Governance including Delegated Authority (2 ",
                "pages) "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "5",
            "Agenda Title": "Students’ Union (SU) Building - Myer Horowitz Theatre: Renovation and Expansion - Schematic Design Report ",
            "Motion": " THAT the GFC Facilities Development Committee approve, under delegated authority from General Faculties Council, and on the recommendation of Planning and Project Delivery, the proposed Students’ Union Building -  Myer Horowitz Theatre: Renovation and Expansion – Schematic Design Report (as set forth in Attachment 2) as the basis for further planning. ",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-02-16",
            "Committee": "FDC",
            "Proposed By": "Ben Louie, University Architect, Facilities and Operations Robyn Paches, Vice-President (Operations and Finance), Students’ Union ",
            "Presenter": " Ben Louie, University Architect, Facilities and Operations Robyn Paches, Vice-President (Operations and Finance), Students’ Union Stephen Boyd, Principal, Dialog ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Vice-President (Facilities and Operations) The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) To approve the schematic design report which revitalizes and expands the theatre’s performance in delivering its vision to educate, entertain and bring the campus community together.  The Impact of the Proposal is To renovate and expand the back and front of house functionality of the performance hall, technical and support systems as well as expanding the size and flexibility of the pre-performance spaces to support a wide range of activities and programming; resulting in an active and vibrant facility, increased relevance and viability of the Students’ Union Building.  Replaces/Revises (eg, policies, resolutions) N/A Timeline/Implementation Date Design development report will proceed immediately following. Estimated Cost and funding source N/A Next Steps (ie.: Communications Plan, Implementation plans) The schematic design and development design reports will contribute to the fund raising activities through the work of the Friends of the Myer Horowitz Theatre.  Supplementary Notes and context N/A Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) Those who have been informed: N/A Those who have been consulted: • Friends of the Myer Horowitz Theatre –  November 14, 2016, December 20, 2016 and January 17, 2017 • Presentations to Student Council –              June 28, 2016 and January 24, 2017 • Dean of Students Office   • SUB Advisory Group Those who are actively participating: • Students’ Union Project Steering Committee –  July 27, 2016 to January 25, 2017 Approval Route (Governance) (including meeting dates) GFC Facilities Development Committee (February 16, 2017) – for approval Final Approver GFC Facilities Development Committee  Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents Comprehensive Institutional Plan Institutional Strategic Plan – For the Public Good BUILD…as a community, we recognize that our future is built on shared values.  5. OBJECTIVE: Build and strengthen trust, connection, and a sense of belonging among all members of the university community through a focus on shared values.  i. Strategy: Support and enhance activities, initiatives, and traditions that bond alumni, students, staff, faculty, and professors emeriti to the university. vi. Strategy: Encourage and support institution-wide initiatives, services, and programs, such as arts and cultural activities, intramurals, student groups, volunteering, clubs, and centres, which bring students from all faculties into community with each other. BUILD…and our story is built on the accomplishments and contributions of our people. 6. OBJECTIVE: Build and support an integrated, cross-institutional strategy to demonstrate and enhance the University of Alberta’s local, national, and international story, so that it is shared, understood, and valued by the full University of Alberta community and our many stakeholders.  iii.  Strategy: Communicate, using both quantitative and qualitative evidence, how the University of Alberta serves as a cornerstone of the community bringing widespread economic and societal benefits to all Albertans, as well as to national and international partners and stakeholders. EXPERIENCE…and beyond. 8. OBJECTIVE: Create and facilitate co-curricular and extracurricular learning experiences for undergraduate and graduate students that enable their self-discovery and give them the skills to use their talents, creativity, and curiosity to contribute as future citizens and leaders.  i. Strategy: Increase the opportunities for all undergraduate and graduate students to experience the benefits of living on campus,  including guaranteeing the offer of a place in residence to every first-\nyear undergraduate student.  iii. Strategy: Support the roles of the Graduate Students’ Association and Students’ Union, along with other student groups, in the promotion of extracurricular programs that create a sense of community and support the learning environment.  ENGAGE…our ability to contribute to society will flow in large measure from our ability to connect with our communities…  16. OBJECTIVE: Enhance, increase, and sustain reciprocal, mutually beneficial community relations, community engagement, and community-\nengaged research and scholarship that will extend the reach, effectiveness, benefit, and value of our university-community connections. i. Strategy: Identify and embrace opportunities to build, strengthen, and extend the University of Alberta’s connections to and engagement with external stakeholders, including the general public, neighbouring communities, ethnic and cultural communities, and other communities of practice. iv. Strategy: Continue to build mutually beneficial, authentic relationships with alumni and donors. v. Strategy: Welcome increased community access, participation, and engagement at all University of Alberta sites, such as our downtown campus at Enterprise Square and our sport facilities at South Campus.  SUSTAIN…and our commitment to sustainability. 20. OBJECTIVE: Continue to build and support an integrated approach to social, economic, and environmental sustainability that incorporates teaching and learning, research, outreach, capacity building, and the operations that support them. ii. Strategy: Embed social, economic, and environmental sustainability into the development and care of the university’s natural and built environments.  SUSTAIN…our commitment extends to administration and governance… 21. OBJECTIVE: Encourage continuous improvement in administrative, governance, planning, and stewardship systems, procedures, and policies that enable students, faculty, staff, and the institution as a whole to achieve shared strategic goals.  i. Strategy: Encourage transparency and improve communication across the university through clear consultation and decision-making processes, substantive and timely communication of information, and  access to shared, reliable institutional data. iv. Strategy: Facilitate easy access to and use of university services and systems; reducing duplication and complexity; and encourage cross-institutional administrative and operational collaboration. SUSTAIN…and infrastructure.  23. OBJECTIVE: Ensure that the University of Alberta’s campuses, facilities, utility, and information technology infrastructure can continue to meet the needs and strategic goals of the university.  Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA):   The PSLA gives GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs (Section 26(1)) and provides that GFC may make recommendations to the Board of Governors on a building program and related matters (Section 26(1) (o)).   Section 18(1) of the PSLA give the Board of Governors the authority to make any bylaws “appropriate for the management, government and control of the university buildings and land.”   Section 19 of the Act requires that the Board “consider the recommendations of the general faculties council, if any, on matters of academic import prior to providing for (a) the support and maintenance of the university, (b) the betterment of existing buildings, (c) the construction of any new buildings the board considers necessary for the purposes of the university [and] (d) the furnishing and equipping of the existing and newly erected buildings [.] […]”  Section 67(1) of the Act governs the terms under which university land may be leased.  GFC Facilities Development Committee Terms of Reference 3. MANDATE OF THE COMMITTEE 2. Delegation of Authority Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the terms of reference         above, the Board of Governors and General Faculties Council have delegated to the Facilities Development Committee the following powers and authority: A. Facilities 1. To approve proposed General Space Programmes for academic units. 2 (i) To approve proposals concerning the design and use of all new facilities and the repurposing of existing facilities and to routinely report these decisions for information to the Board of Governors. (ii) In considering such proposals, GFC FDC may provide advice, upon request, to the Provost and Vice-President (Academic), Vice-President  (Facilities and Operations), and/or the University Architect (or their respective delegates) on the siting of such faculties. B. Other Matters The Chair of FDC will bring forward to FDC items where the Office of the Provost and Vice-President (Academic) and/or the Office of the Vice-\nPresident (Facilities and Operations), in consultation with other units or officers of the University, is seeking the advice of the Committee. UAPPOL  Space Management Policy and Space Management Procedure The respective roles of GFC FDC and the Vice-President (Facilities and Operations) with regard to institutional space management are set out in the Board-approved Policy and attendant Procedure. Attachments  1.  Briefing Note (3 pages) 2.  SUB Myer Horowitz Theatre Renovation and Expansion SD Report, January 30, 2017 (84 pages) 3.  Appendix XX, North Campus Amendment, March 2014, Exhibits 6.1.1 and 6.1.2 (2 pages) ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "Those who have been informed: ",
                "N/A ",
                "Those who have been consulted: ",
                "• Friends of the Myer Horowitz Theatre – ",
                "November 14, 2016, December 20, 2016 and January 17, 2017 ",
                "• Presentations to Student Council – ",
                "            June 28, 2016 and January 24, 2017 ",
                "• Dean of Students Office ",
                " • SUB Advisory Group ",
                "Those who are actively participating: ",
                "• Students’ Union Project Steering Committee – ",
                "July 27, 2016 to January 25, 2017 "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "GFC Facilities Development Committee (February 16, 2017) – for",
                "approval"
            ],
            "Final Approver": " GFC Facilities Development Committee"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "6",
            "Agenda Title": "Devonian Botanic Garden (DBG): Ecological Learning Centre Revised Concept Design ",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-02-16",
            "Committee": "FDC",
            "Proposed By": "Pat Jansen, Associate Vice-President, Planning and Project Delivery, Facilities and Operations ",
            "Presenter": " Ben Louie, University Architect, Facilities and Operations Lee Foote, Director, Devonian Botanic Garden, Faculty of Agriculture, Life and Environmental Sciences ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Vice-President (Facilities and Operations) The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) To provide GFC Facilities Development Committee (FDC) with context and rationale for the revised concept design (February 2017) for the Ecological Learning Centre (ELC) at the Devonian Botanic Garden.  Timeline/Implementation Date N/A Supplementary Notes and context In February 2015, GFC FDC discussed and provided advice on the previous version of the concept design of the ELC with 2,789 square metre (m2) programme area. It has since been reduced to 881 m2 to meet the minimal operational requirement, and a supported fundraising campaign target while facilitating expansion and growth over time, consistent with the sector plan of the garden. Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) Those who have been informed: • Dean of ALES Those who have been consulted: •  Staff of Devonian Botanic Garden Those who are actively participating: • Lee Foote, Director, DBG • Ruby Swanson, General Manager, DBG • Ben Louie, University Architect  • Todd Were, Director, Project Management Office Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents Comprehensive Institutional Plan Institutional Strategic Plan - For the Public Good  BUILD…As a community, we recognize that our future is built on shared values… 5. OBJECTIVE: Build and strengthen trust, connection, and a sense of belonging among all members of the university community through a focus on shared values.  vi. Strategy: Encourage and support institution-wide initiatives, services, and programs, such as arts and cultural activities,  intramurals, student groups, volunteering, clubs, and centres, which bring students from all faculties into community with each other. BUILD…and our story is built on the accomplishments and contributions of our people.  6. OBJECTIVE: Build and support an integrated, cross-institutional strategy to demonstrate and enhance the University of Alberta’s local, national, and international story, so that it is shared, understood, and valued by the full University of Alberta community and our many stakeholders.  iii. Strategy: Communicate, using both quantitative and qualitative evidence, how the University of Alberta serves as a cornerstone of the community bringing widespread economic and societal benefits to all Albertans, as well as to national and international partners and stakeholders. ENGAGE…Our ability to contribute to society will flow in large measure from our ability to connect with our communities… 16. OBJECTIVE: Enhance, increase, and sustain reciprocal, mutually beneficial community relations, community engagement, and community-\nengaged research and scholarship that will extend the reach, effectiveness, benefit, and value of our university-community connections. i. Strategy: Identify and embrace opportunities to build, strengthen, and extend the University of Alberta’s connections to and engagement with external stakeholders, including the general public, neighbouring communities, ethnic and cultural communities, and other communities of practice. iv. Strategy: Continue to build mutually beneficial, authentic relationships with alumni and donors. v. Strategy: Welcome increased community access, participation, and engagement at all University of Alberta sites, such as our downtown campus at Enterprise Square and our sport facilities at South Campus.  ENGAGE…that support institutional partnerships locally, nationally, and internationally.  18. OBJECTIVE: Seek, build, strengthen, and sustain partnerships with local, national, or international research agencies, governments, government ministries and agencies, universities, Indigenous communities, libraries, not-for-profits, industry, business, and community organizations.  ii. Strategy: Participate and provide leadership in municipal, provincial, national, and international consortia, networks, and programs. SUSTAIN…and our commitment to sustainability. 20. OBJECTIVE: Continue to build and support an integrated approach to social, economic, and environmental sustainability that incorporates teaching and learning, research, outreach, capacity building, and the operations that support them. i. Strategy: Integrate sustainability into teaching, learning, research, and outreach in ways that foster critical, interdisciplinary, long-term systemic thinking on sustainability. ii. Strategy: Embed social, economic, and environmental sustainability into the development and care of the university’s natural and built environments.  iii. Strategy: Enhance awareness of, and engagement with, the university’s environmental sustainability features, practices, and resources across the University of Alberta campuses and external communities. SUSTAIN…and infrastructure.  23. OBJECTIVE: Ensure that the University of Alberta’s campuses, facilities, utility, and information technology infrastructure can continue to meet the needs and strategic goals of the university. iv. Strategy: Engage and strategically partner with stakeholders to explore and develop joint-use projects. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA):   The PSLA gives GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs (Section 26(1)) and provides that GFC may make recommendations to the Board of Governors on a building program and related matters (Section 26(1) (o)).   Section 18(1) of the PSLA give the Board of Governors the authority to make any bylaws “appropriate for the management, government and control of the university buildings and land.”   Section 19 of the Act requires that the Board “consider the recommendations of the general faculties council, if any, on matters of academic import prior to providing for (a) the support and maintenance of the university, (b) the betterment of existing buildings, (c) the construction of any new buildings the board considers necessary for the purposes of the university [and] (d) the furnishing and equipping of the existing and newly erected buildings [.] […]”  Section 67(1) of the Act governs the terms under which university land may be leased.  GFC Facilities Development Committee Terms of Reference  3. MANDATE OF THE COMMITTEE 2. Delegation of Authority Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the terms of reference         above, the Board of Governors and General Faculties Council have delegated to the Facilities Development Committee the following powers and authority: A. Facilities 1. To approve proposed General Space Programmes for academic units. 2 (i) To approve proposals concerning the design and use of all new facilities and the repurposing of existing facilities and to routinely report these decisions for information to the Board of Governors. (ii) In considering such proposals, GFC FDC may provide advice, upon request, to the Provost and Vice-President (Academic), Vice-President (Facilities and Operations), and/or the University Architect (or their respective delegates) on the siting of such faculties. B. Other Matters The Chair of FDC will bring forward to FDC items where the Office of the Provost and Vice-President (Academic) and/or the Office of the Vice-\nPresident (Facilities and Operations), in consultation with other units or officers of the University, is seeking the advice of the Committee. UAPPOL  Space Management Policy and Space Management Procedure The respective roles of GFC FDC and the Vice-President (Facilities and Operations) with regard to institutional space management are set out in the Board-approved Policy and attendant Procedure. Attachments  1.  Briefing Note (1 page) 2.  Space Comparison Matrix - $20.3 Mil Option, Prog in HQ and Option 3 (1 page) 3.  Space Comparison Matrix – Option 3, Option 2, Option 1 (1 page) 4.  DBG – Ecological Learning Centre 2016 Option 3 ($5 million) (11 pages) 5.  DBG – Ecological Learning Centre 2016 Option 2 ($6 million) (11 pages) 6.  DBG – Ecological Learning Centre 2016 Option 1 ($7.2 million) (12 pages) ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "Those who have been informed: ",
                "• Dean of ALES ",
                "Those who have been consulted: ",
                "•  Staff of Devonian Botanic Garden ",
                "Those who are actively participating: ",
                "• Lee Foote, Director, DBG ",
                "• Ruby Swanson, General Manager, DBG ",
                "• Ben Louie, University Architect ",
                "• Todd Were, Director, Project Management Office ",
                "Alignment/Compliance ",
                "Alignment with Guiding ",
                "Documents ",
                "Comprehensive Institutional Plan ",
                "Institutional Strategic Plan - For the Public Good ",
                "BUILD…As a community, we recognize that our future is built on shared ",
                "values… ",
                "5. OBJECTIVE: Build and strengthen trust, connection, and a sense of ",
                "belonging among all members of the university community through a ",
                "focus on shared values. ",
                "vi. Strategy: Encourage and support institution-wide initiatives, ",
                "services, and programs, such as arts and cultural activities, ",
                " intramurals, student groups, volunteering, clubs, and centres, which ",
                "bring students from all faculties into community with each other. ",
                "BUILD…and our story is built on the accomplishments and contributions ",
                "of our people. ",
                "6. OBJECTIVE: Build and support an integrated, cross-institutional ",
                "strategy to demonstrate and enhance the University of Alberta’s local, ",
                "national, and international story, so that it is shared, understood, and ",
                "valued by the full University of Alberta community and our many ",
                "stakeholders. ",
                "iii. Strategy: Communicate, using both quantitative and qualitative ",
                "evidence, how the University of Alberta serves as a cornerstone of the ",
                "community bringing widespread economic and societal benefits to all ",
                "Albertans, as well as to national and international partners and ",
                "stakeholders. ",
                "ENGAGE…Our ability to contribute to society will flow in large measure ",
                "from our ability to connect with our communities… ",
                "16. OBJECTIVE: Enhance, increase, and sustain reciprocal, mutually ",
                "beneficial community relations, community engagement, and community- ",
                "engaged research and scholarship that will extend the reach, ",
                "effectiveness, benefit, and value of our university-community ",
                "connections. ",
                "i. Strategy: Identify and embrace opportunities to build, strengthen, ",
                "and extend the University of Alberta’s connections to and engagement ",
                "with external stakeholders, including the general public, neighbouring ",
                "communities, ethnic and cultural communities, and other communities ",
                "of practice. ",
                "iv. Strategy: Continue to build mutually beneficial, authentic ",
                "relationships with alumni and donors. ",
                "v. Strategy: Welcome increased community access, participation, and ",
                "engagement at all University of Alberta sites, such as our downtown ",
                "campus at Enterprise Square and our sport facilities at South ",
                "Campus. ",
                "ENGAGE…that support institutional partnerships locally, nationally, and ",
                "internationally. ",
                "18. OBJECTIVE: Seek, build, strengthen, and sustain partnerships with ",
                "local, national, or international research agencies, governments, ",
                "government ministries and agencies, universities, Indigenous ",
                "communities, libraries, not-for-profits, industry, business, and community ",
                "organizations. ",
                "ii. Strategy: Participate and provide leadership in municipal, provincial, ",
                "national, and international consortia, networks, and programs. ",
                "SUSTAIN…and our commitment to sustainability. ",
                "20. OBJECTIVE: Continue to build and support an integrated approach ",
                "to social, economic, and environmental sustainability that incorporates ",
                "teaching and learning, research, outreach, capacity building, and the ",
                "operations that support them. ",
                "i. Strategy: Integrate sustainability into teaching, learning, research, ",
                "and outreach in ways that foster critical, interdisciplinary, long-term ",
                "systemic thinking on sustainability. ",
                "ii. Strategy: Embed social, economic, and environmental sustainability ",
                "into the development and care of the university’s natural and built ",
                "environments. ",
                "iii. Strategy: Enhance awareness of, and engagement with, the ",
                "university’s environmental sustainability features, practices, and ",
                "resources across the University of Alberta campuses and external ",
                "communities. ",
                "SUSTAIN…and infrastructure. ",
                "23. OBJECTIVE: Ensure that the University of Alberta’s campuses, ",
                "facilities, utility, and information technology infrastructure can continue to ",
                "meet the needs and strategic goals of the university. ",
                "iv. Strategy: Engage and strategically partner with stakeholders to ",
                "explore and develop joint-use projects. ",
                "Compliance with Legislation, ",
                "Policy and/or Procedure ",
                "Relevant to the Proposal ",
                "(please quote legislation and ",
                "include identifying section ",
                "numbers) ",
                "Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): ",
                "The PSLA gives GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board ",
                "of Governors, over academic affairs (Section 26(1)) and provides that ",
                "GFC may make recommendations to the Board of Governors on a ",
                "building program and related matters (Section 26(1) (o)). ",
                "Section 18(1) of the PSLA give the Board of Governors the authority to ",
                "make any bylaws “appropriate for the management, government and ",
                "control of the university buildings and land.” ",
                "Section 19 of the Act requires that the Board “consider the ",
                "recommendations of the general faculties council, if any, on matters of ",
                "academic import prior to providing for (a) the support and maintenance ",
                "of the university, (b) the betterment of existing buildings, (c) the ",
                "construction of any new buildings the board considers necessary for the ",
                "purposes of the university [and] (d) the furnishing and equipping of the ",
                "existing and newly erected buildings [.] […]” ",
                "Section 67(1) of the Act governs the terms under which university land ",
                "may be leased. ",
                "GFC Facilities Development Committee Terms of Reference ",
                " 3. MANDATE OF THE COMMITTEE ",
                "2. Delegation of Authority ",
                "Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the terms of reference ",
                "above, the Board of Governors and General Faculties Council have ",
                "delegated to the Facilities Development Committee the following powers ",
                "and authority: ",
                "A. Facilities ",
                "1. To approve proposed General Space Programmes for academic units. ",
                "2 (i) To approve proposals concerning the design and use of all new ",
                "facilities and the repurposing of existing facilities and to routinely report ",
                "these decisions for information to the Board of Governors. ",
                "(ii) In considering such proposals, GFC FDC may provide advice, upon ",
                "request, to the Provost and Vice-President (Academic), Vice-President ",
                "(Facilities and Operations), and/or the University Architect (or their ",
                "respective delegates) on the siting of such faculties. ",
                "B. Other Matters ",
                "The Chair of FDC will bring forward to FDC items where the Office of the ",
                "Provost and Vice-President (Academic) and/or the Office of the Vice- ",
                "President (Facilities and Operations), in consultation with other units or ",
                "officers of the University, is seeking the advice of the Committee. ",
                "UAPPOL ",
                "Space Management Policy and Space Management Procedure ",
                "The respective roles of GFC FDC and the Vice-President (Facilities and ",
                "Operations) with regard to institutional space management are set out in ",
                "the Board-approved Policy and attendant Procedure. ",
                "Attachments ",
                "1.  Briefing Note (1 page) ",
                "2.  Space Comparison Matrix - $20.3 Mil Option, Prog in HQ and Option 3 (1 page) ",
                "3.  Space Comparison Matrix – Option 3, Option 2, Option 1 (1 page) ",
                "4.  DBG – Ecological Learning Centre 2016 Option 3 ($5 million) (11 pages) ",
                "5.  DBG – Ecological Learning Centre 2016 Option 2 ($6 million) (11 pages) ",
                "6.  DBG – Ecological Learning Centre 2016 Option 1 ($7.2 million) (12 pages) "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        }
    ],
    "url": "/static/FDC/2017-02-16/Past-Meeting-Material.pdf"
}