{
    "Committee": "FDC",
    "Date": "2017-09-28",
    "Title": "FDC General Faculties Council - 2017-09-28",
    "Location": "2-31 South Academic Building (SAB)",
    "Time": "1:30 PM - 4:00 PM",
    "Attendees": [
        "1:30 PM - 4:00 PM",
        "Wendy Rodgers, Chair REGRETS:",
        "Debbie Feisst Sandeep Agrawal",
        "Chenyang Feng Cheryl Harwardt",
        "Joanna Harrington",
        "Andrew MacIsaac STAFF:",
        "Robyn Paches Marion Haggarty-France, University Secretary",
        "Stephanie Russell Meg Brolley, GFC Secretary and Manager of GFC Services",
        "Andrew Sharman Andrea Patrick, Committee Coordinator",
        "Zizhao Wang",
        "NON-VOTING:",
        "Pat Jansen"
    ],
    "Items": [
        {
            "Item No.": "4",
            "Agenda Title": "Committee Kick-Off and Orientation 2017-2018 ",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-09-28",
            "Committee": "FDC",
            "Proposed By": "University Governance ",
            "Presenter": "s Marion Haggarty France, University Secretary Meg Brolley, GFC Secretary ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility General Faculties Council The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) To provide committee members with an overview of the principles under which GFC operates and how these inform the work and functioning of the committee. To orient members to the committee’s mandate, terms of reference, procedures and to committee member roles and responsibilities. Timeline/Implementation Date N/A Supplementary Notes and context Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) Those who are actively participating: • GFC Facilities Development Committee (FDC) Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents For the Public Good Objective 21 Encourage continuous improvement in administrative, governance, planning and stewardship systems, procedures, and policies that enable students, faculty, staff, and the institutions as a whole to achieve shared strategic goals. Report of the ad hoc Committee on Academic Governance Including Delegated Authority (April 21, 2017) Orientation and Education “Orientation sessions should provide both high level governance information and detailed information on the responsibilities of members, voting protocol, seating, how meetings are structured, question period procedures, how members can report back to their constituencies, and how to get items on the agenda. It is important to recognize that committee orientation must be designed in light of the fact that those at-large members who do not sit on GFC may require additional attention. The ad hoc committee recommends that  orientation and orientation materials should be provided in a number of modes and formats, including stand-alone orientation workshops, briefings at meetings, and through widely available written and online materials. A GFC member handbook or guidebook would be an ideal reference tool. In light of the unique character of collegial academic governance, GFC members should be encouraged to use orientation sessions to meet and get to know their fellow members and create networks which can provide informal support and community building opportunities. The following recommendations focus on improving orientation to prepare GFC and committee members to be informed and active participants in academic governance. Recommendation: THAT a variety of orientation sessions be offered including a general orientation to governance (Governance 101), followed by orientations more specific to GFC and GFC standing committees, and follow up sessions through the year Recommendation: THAT the responsibilities of members be clearly outlined in a core GFC document” Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) “Powers of general faculties council” 26(1)Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council is responsible for the academic affairs of the university” Attachments: 1. GFC Principles for Delegation of Authority 2. GFC Principles for Standing Committee Composition 3. GFC Roles and Responsibilities of Members 4. GFC Meeting Procedural Rules 5. Current Committee Terms of Reference ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) Those who are actively participating: ",
                "• GFC Facilities Development Committee (FDC) ",
                "Alignment/Compliance ",
                "Alignment with Guiding ",
                "Documents ",
                "For the Public Good ",
                "Objective 21 ",
                "Encourage continuous improvement in administrative, governance, ",
                "planning and stewardship systems, procedures, and policies that ",
                "enable students, faculty, staff, and the institutions as a whole to ",
                "achieve shared strategic goals. ",
                "Report of the ad hoc Committee on Academic Governance ",
                "Including Delegated Authority (April 21, 2017) ",
                "Orientation and Education ",
                "“Orientation sessions should provide both high level governance ",
                "information and detailed information on the responsibilities of ",
                "members, voting protocol, seating, how meetings are structured, ",
                "question period procedures, how members can report back to their ",
                "constituencies, and how to get items on the agenda. It is important to ",
                "recognize that committee orientation must be designed in light of the ",
                "fact that those at-large members who do not sit on GFC may require ",
                "additional attention. The ad hoc committee recommends that ",
                " orientation and orientation materials should be provided in a number ",
                "of modes and formats, including stand-alone orientation workshops, ",
                "briefings at meetings, and through widely available written and online ",
                "materials. A GFC member handbook or guidebook would be an ideal ",
                "reference tool. In light of the unique character of collegial academic ",
                "governance, GFC members should be encouraged to use orientation ",
                "sessions to meet and get to know their fellow members and create ",
                "networks which can provide informal support and community building ",
                "opportunities. The following recommendations focus on improving ",
                "orientation to prepare GFC and committee members to be informed ",
                "and active participants in academic governance. ",
                "Recommendation: THAT a variety of orientation sessions be offered ",
                "including a general orientation to governance (Governance 101), ",
                "followed by orientations more specific to GFC and GFC standing ",
                "committees, and follow up sessions through the year ",
                "Recommendation: THAT the responsibilities of members be clearly ",
                "outlined in a core GFC document” ",
                "Compliance with Legislation, ",
                "Policy and/or Procedure ",
                "Relevant to the Proposal ",
                "(please quote legislation and ",
                "include identifying section ",
                "numbers) ",
                "1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) ",
                "“Powers of general faculties council” ",
                "26(1)Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council is ",
                "responsible for the academic affairs of the university” ",
                "Attachments: ",
                "1. GFC Principles for Delegation of Authority ",
                "2. GFC Principles for Standing Committee Composition ",
                "3. GFC Roles and Responsibilities of Members ",
                "4. GFC Meeting Procedural Rules ",
                "5. Current Committee Terms of Reference "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "6",
            "Agenda Title": "Proposed Changes to the GFC Facilities Development Committee (FDC) Terms of Reference ",
            "Motion": " THAT the GFC Facilities Development Committee recommend that General Faculties Council approve the proposed changes to the GFC Facilities Development Committee Terms of Reference as set forth in Attachment 1, to take effect upon approval. ",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-09-28",
            "Committee": "FDC",
            "Proposed By": "Wendy Rodgers, Chair ",
            "Presenter": " Wendy Rodgers, Chair ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility General Faculties Council The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) To approve the revised terms of reference for the GFC Facilities Development Committee (FDC). The Impact of the Proposal is The committee terms of reference are being amended to reflect the GFC principles on delegated authority and committee composition approved by GFC on April 21, 2017. The Report of the ad hoc Committee on Academic Governance including Delegated Authority, endorsed by GFC on April 21, 2017, did not recommend any substantive changes to the GFC FDC terms of reference. Replaces/Revises (eg, policies, resolutions) Current committee terms of reference. Timeline/Implementation Date Upon final approval by GFC. Estimated Cost and funding source N/A Next Steps (ie.: Communications Plan, Implementation plans) N/A Supplementary Notes and context The proposed terms of reference reflect a standard template that will be used for all GFC standing committees which has been designed to provide increased clarity on mandate, responsibilities, and delegated authority.  Further changes to the FDC terms of reference include: 1. Various changes to update office names and position titles for members 2. Reference to the Long Range Development Plan (LRDP) and joint-use facilities 3. The inclusion of a comprehensive Definitions section and links to relevant institutional policies and procedures 4. Stipulation that three of the five academic staff members must be a members of GFC, as per Principle 1 of the Principles for Standing Committee Composition: “Wherever possible, the majority of elected members of each standing committee should be drawn from the membership of  GFC to provide tangible links between GFC and its standing committees and increase engagement of the greater GFC community.” 5. The voting status of ex-officio members has been revised to reflect their voting status in accordance with principle 3 of the Principles for Standing Committee Composition on GFC. Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> Those who have been informed: • Facilities Development Committee • General Faculties Council • Board of Governors has been provided with brief highlights of the work of the ad hoc Committee on Academic Governance including Delegated Authority Those who have been consulted: • Report of the ad hoc Committee on Academic Governance Including Delegated Authority Appendix 6: List of Consultations • Facilities Development Committee • General Faculties Council • GFC Executive Committee Those who are actively participating: • ad hoc Committee on Academic Governance Including Delegated Authority • Facilities Development Committee • General Faculties Council • GFC Executive Committee Approval Route (Governance) (including meeting dates) GFC Facilities Development Committee (September 28, 2017) GFC Executive Committee (October 16, 2017) General Faculties Council (October 30, 2017) Final Approver General Faculties Council  Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents For the Public Good Objective 21: Encourage continuous improvement in administrative, governance, planning, and stewardship systems, procedures, and policies that enable students, faculty, staff, and the institution as a whole to achieve shared strategic goals. Principles for General Faculties Council Delegation of Authority Principles for General Faculties Council Standing Committee Composition Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) “Powers of general faculties council” 26(1) Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council is responsible for the academic affairs of the university […] (3) A general faculties council may delegate any of its powers, duties and functions under this Act, including the powers referred to in http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/%7E/media/Governance/Documents/GO04/ReportoftheadhoccommitteevEndorsedApril212017.pdf\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/%7E/media/Governance/Documents/GO04/ReportoftheadhoccommitteevEndorsedApril212017.pdf\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/en/%7E/media/Governance/Documents/GO05/GEN/Linked%20Documents%20on%20GFC%20Home%20Page/Principles_for_Delegation_of_Authority.pdf\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/en/%7E/media/Governance/Documents/GO05/GEN/Linked%20Documents%20on%20GFC%20Home%20Page/Principles_of_Committee_Composition.pdf\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/en/%7E/media/Governance/Documents/GO05/GEN/Linked%20Documents%20on%20GFC%20Home%20Page/Principles_of_Committee_Composition.pdf\n section 31, as it sees fit and may prescribe conditions governing the exercise or performance of any delegated power, duty or function, including the power of subdelegation.” 2. GFC Executive Committee Terms of Reference “5. Agendas of General Faculties Council  GFC has delegated to the Executive Committee the authority to decide which items are placed on a GFC Agenda, and the order in which those agenda items appear on each GFC agenda.  With respect to recommendations from other bodies and other GFC committees, however, the role of the Executive Committee shall be to examine and debate the substance of reports or recommendations and to decide if an item is ready to be forwarded to the full governing body.” Attachment: 1. Attachment 1:  Draft Terms of Reference 2. Attachment 2: Current Terms of Reference  ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "<For further information see ",
                "the link posted on the ",
                "Governance Toolkit section ",
                "Student Participation Protocol> ",
                "Those who have been informed: ",
                "• Facilities Development Committee ",
                "• General Faculties Council ",
                "• Board of Governors has been provided with brief highlights of the ",
                "work of the ad hoc Committee on Academic Governance ",
                "including Delegated Authority ",
                "Those who have been consulted: ",
                "• Report of the ad hoc Committee on Academic Governance ",
                "Including Delegated Authority Appendix 6: List of Consultations ",
                "• Facilities Development Committee ",
                "• General Faculties Council ",
                "• GFC Executive Committee ",
                "Those who are actively participating: ",
                "• ad hoc Committee on Academic Governance Including Delegated ",
                "Authority ",
                "• Facilities Development Committee ",
                "• General Faculties Council ",
                "• GFC Executive Committee "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "GFC Facilities Development Committee (September 28, 2017)",
                "GFC Executive Committee (October 16, 2017)",
                "General Faculties Council (October 30, 2017)"
            ],
            "Final Approver": " General Faculties Council"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "7",
            "Agenda Title": "Information Services and Technology:  General Space Program ",
            "Motion": " THAT the GFC Facilities Development Committee approve, under delegated authority from General Faculties Council and on the recommendation of Planning and Project Delivery, the proposed Information Services and Technology: General Space Program (as set forth in Attachment 2) as the basis for further planning. ",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-09-28",
            "Committee": "FDC",
            "Proposed By": "Lorna Baker Perri, Director, Space Management, Facilities and Operations ",
            "Presenter": " Brian Stewart, Deputy Chief Information Officer, IST Carrie Rogerson, CR Design Inc. Shannon Loughran, Accommodation Planner, Space Management, Facilities and Operations ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Vice-President (Facilities and Operations) The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) To form the basis for furthering planning for the Department of Information Services and Technology (IST). The Impact of the Proposal is To provide an analysis of the space requirements; both present and future for the Department of Information Services and Technology (IST). Replaces/Revises (eg, policies, resolutions) N/A Timeline/Implementation Date N/A Estimated Cost and funding source N/A Next Steps (ie.: Communications Plan, Implementation plans) N/A Supplementary Notes and context N/A Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) Those who have been informed: • Deputy Provost • Vice-President, Facilities and Operations • Associate Vice-President, Planning and Project Delivery Those who have been consulted: • IST Executive and Directors Those who are actively participating: • IST Executive and Directors • Accommodation Planner, Space Management Approval Route (Governance) (including meeting dates) GFC Facilities Development Committee (September 28, 2017) – for approval Final Approver GFC Facilities Development Committee  Alignment/Compliance  Alignment with Guiding Documents Comprehensive Institutional Plan Institutional Strategic Plan – For the Public Good EXCEL 12. OBJECTIVE  Build a portfolio of signature research and teaching areas where the University of Alberta is or will be recognized as a global leader. iii. Strategy: Encourage and facilitate knowledge and technology transfer to ensure that society can realize the benefits of intellectual capital arising from research and creative endeavors.  14. OBJECTIVE Inspire, model, and support excellence in teaching and learning.  iv. Strategy: Create and support an institutional strategy that enables excellence in the design, deployment, and assessment of digital learning technologies.  SUSTAIN 21. OBJECTIVE Encourage continuous improvement in administrative, governance, planning, and stewardship systems, procedures, and policies that enable students, faculty, staff, and the institution as a whole to achieve shared strategic goals.  iv. Strategy: Facilitate easy access to and use of university services and systems, reduce duplication and complexity, and encourage cross-institutional administrative and operational collaboration.  23. OBJECTIVE Ensure that the University of Alberta’s campuses, facilities, utility, and information technology infrastructure can continue to meet the needs and strategic goals of the university.  i. Strategy: Secure and sustain funding to plan, operate, expand, renew, and optimize the use of campus infrastructure to meet evolving teaching and research priorities.  iii. Strategy: provide effective IT solutions and enhancement that enable secure and reliable delivery of high-quality programs and services.  Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA):   The PSLA gives GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs (Section 26(1)) and provides that GFC may make recommendations to the Board of Governors on a building program and related matters (Section 26(1) (o)).   Section 18(1) of the PSLA give the Board of Governors the authority to make any bylaws “appropriate for the management, government and control of the university buildings and land.”    Section 19 of the Act requires that the Board “consider the recommendations of the general faculties council, if any, on matters of academic import prior to providing for (a) the support and maintenance of the university, (b) the betterment of existing buildings, (c) the construction of any new buildings the board considers necessary for the purposes of the university [and] (d) the furnishing and equipping of the existing and newly erected buildings [.] […]”  Section 67(1) of the Act governs the terms under which university land may be leased.  GFC Facilities Development Committee Terms of Reference 3. MANDATE OF THE COMMITTEE 2. Delegation of Authority Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the terms of reference         above, the Board of Governors and General Faculties Council have delegated to the Facilities Development Committee the following powers and authority: A. Facilities 1. To approve proposed General Space Programmes for academic units. 2 (i) To approve proposals concerning the design and use of all new facilities and the repurposing of existing facilities and to routinely report these decisions for information to the Board of Governors. (ii) In considering such proposals, GFC FDC may provide advice, upon request, to the Provost and Vice-President (Academic), Vice-President (Facilities and Operations), and/or the University Architect (or their respective delegates) on the siting of such faculties. B. Other Matters The Chair of FDC will bring forward to FDC items where the Office of the Provost and Vice-President (Academic) and/or the Office of the Vice-\nPresident (Facilities and Operations), in consultation with other units or officers of the University, is seeking the advice of the Committee. UAPPOL  Space Management Policy and Space Management Procedure The respective roles of GFC FDC and the Vice-President (Facilities and Operations) with regard to institutional space management are set out in the Board-approved Policy and attendant Procedure. Attachments  1.  Briefing Note (2 pages) 2.  Information Services and Technology – General Space Program Report, July 5, 2017 (88 pages) ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "Those who have been informed: ",
                "• Deputy Provost ",
                "• Vice-President, Facilities and Operations ",
                "• Associate Vice-President, Planning and Project Delivery ",
                "Those who have been consulted: ",
                "• IST Executive and Directors ",
                "Those who are actively participating: ",
                "• IST Executive and Directors ",
                "• Accommodation Planner, Space Management "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "GFC Facilities Development Committee (September 28, 2017) – for",
                "approval"
            ],
            "Final Approver": " GFC Facilities Development Committee"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "8",
            "Agenda Title": "Augustana Campus Long Range Development Plan Amendment:  September 28, 2017 Community Open House #1 ",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-09-28",
            "Committee": "FDC",
            "Proposed By": "Andrew Sharman, Vice-President (Facilities and Operations) ",
            "Presenter": " Ben Louie, University Architect, Office of the University Architect, Facilities and Operations Nancy MacDonald, Senior Principal, Urban Planning Discipline Lead – Canada, Stantec ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Vice-President (Facilities and Operations)  The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) To provide GFC Facilities Development Committee with a progress update on campus planning activities on Augustana Campus during the 2016-2017 academic year and to receive feedback on proposed amendment to the Campus Long Range Development Plan (LRDP).  Timeline/Implementation Date Presentations are scheduled in an open house setting at two community engagement sessions (one to the internal campus community and the second one to the external community) on September 28, 2017. An additional community engagement event is anticipated to be held in November 2017, to be followed by a submission of the formal report for the Augustana Campus LRDP Amendment to GFC Facilities Development Committee and Board Finance and Property Committee in February 2018 for the Board of Governors approval on March 16, 2018. Supplementary Notes and context Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) Those who have been informed: Those who have been consulted: • Expanded campus stakeholders from Augustana Campus and Facilities and Operations. Those who are actively participating: • Augustana Campus LRDP Amendment Steering Committee with representations from: • the Dean’s Office • Faculty members and Administrative Professional Officers • President of Student Association and student body  • Alumni  • Government and Community Relations, University Relations  • Office of University Architect, Facilities and Operations Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents Comprehensive Institutional Plan  Institutional Strategic Plan - For the Public Good  BUILD... 1. OBJECTIVE: Build a diverse, inclusive community of exceptional undergraduate and graduate students from Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, and the world. i. Strategy: Develop and implement an undergraduate and graduate recruitment strategy to attract top students from across diverse communities in Alberta and Canada, leveraging our strengths as a comprehensive research-\nintensive, multi-campus university with options for francophone and rural liberal arts education. ii. Strategy: Develop and implement an undergraduate and graduate recruitment and retention strategy to attract Indigenous students from across Alberta and Canada. 4. OBJECTIVE: Develop, in consultation and collaboration with internal and external community stakeholders, a thoughtful, respectful, meaningful, and sustainable response to the report of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada. vi.       Strategy: Foster learning opportunities across our campuses that enable student, staff, and faculty participation in reconciliation. 5. OBJECTIVE: Build and strengthen trust, connection, and a sense of belonging among all members of the university community through a focus on shared values. i. Strategy: Encourage and support institution-wide initiatives, services, and programs, such as arts and cultural activities, intramurals, student groups, volunteering, clubs, and centres, which bring students from all faculties into community with each other. EXPERIENCE... 8. OBJECTIVE: Create and facilitate co-curricular and extracurricular learning experiences for undergraduate and graduate students that enable their self-discovery and give them the skills to use their talents, creativity, and curiosity to contribute as future citizens and leaders. i. Strategy: Increase the opportunities for all undergraduate and graduate students to experience the benefits of living on campus, including guaranteeing the offer of a place in residence to every first-year undergraduate student. 9. OBJECTIVE: Enhance, support, and mobilize the unique experiences and cultures of all University of Alberta campuses to the benefit of the university as a whole. i. Strategy: Facilitate and deepen inter-campus connections, communication, and collaborations with Augustana Campus, and ensure that it is strengthened as a leading liberal arts college, and as a living laboratory for teaching and learning innovation, to the benefit of the entire university. EXCEL... 13. OBJECTIVE: Enable University of Alberta researchers to succeed and excel. iv. Strategy: Secure and sustain funding for the continuous evolution and operation of research facilities and resources (e.g., libraries, labs, Research Services Office, museums and collections, performance spaces, fine arts facilities, and U of A Press) to meet the changing needs of our broad-based research community. ENGAGE... 16. OBJECTIVE: Enhance, increase, and sustain reciprocal, mutually beneficial community relations, community engagement, and community-\nengaged research and scholarship that will extend the reach, effectiveness, benefit, and value of our university-community connections. iv. Strategy: Continue to build mutually beneficial, authentic relationships with alumni and donors. v. Strategy: Welcome increased community access, participation, and engagement at all University of Alberta sites, such as our downtown campus at Enterprise Square and our sports facilities at South Campus. 18. OBJECTIVE: Seek, build, strengthen, and sustain partnerships with local, national, or international research agencies, governments, government ministries and agencies, universities, Indigenous communities, libraries, not-for-profits, industry, business, and community organizations. iii. Strategy: Encourage municipal, provincial, national, and international collaborations, partnerships, and MOUs at the institutional, faculty, department, unit, and individual levels. iv. Strategy: Seek, enhance, and support partnerships with industry, including small and medium enterprises. SUSTAIN... 19. OBJECTIVE: Prioritize and sustain student, faculty, and staff health, wellness, and safety by delivering proactive, relevant, responsive, and accessible services and initiatives. i. Strategy: Develop an integrated, institution-wide health and  wellness strategy, which increases the reach and effectiveness of existing health and wellness resources, programs, and services, and promotes resilience and work-\nlife balance. iii. Strategy: Endorse a strong culture of safety awareness, knowledge, planning, and practice to ensure the safety of students, employees, and visitors to our campuses.  20. OBJECTIVE: Continue to build and support an integrated approach to social, economic, and environmental sustainability that incorporates teaching and learning, research, outreach, capacity building, and the operations that support them. ii. Strategy: Embed social, economic, and environmental sustainability into the development and care of the university’s natural and built environments. 23. OBJECTIVE: Ensure that the University of Alberta’s campuses, facilities, utility, and information technology infrastructure can continue to meet the needs and strategic goals of the university. ii. Strategy: Build, operate, and maintain undergraduate and graduate student housing to support our students’ academic success and sense of belonging to the university community. iii. Strategy: Secure and sustain funding to plan, operate, expand, renew, and optimize the use of campus infrastructure to meet evolving teaching and research priorities. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA):   The PSLA gives GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs (Section 26(1)) and provides that GFC may make recommendations to the Board of Governors on a building program and related matters (Section 26(1) (o)).   Section 18(1) of the PSLA give the Board of Governors the authority to make any bylaws “appropriate for the management, government and control of the university buildings and land.”   Section 19 of the Act requires that the Board “consider the recommendations of the general faculties council, if any, on matters of academic import prior to providing for (a) the support and maintenance of the university, (b) the betterment of existing buildings, (c) the construction of any new buildings the board considers necessary for the purposes of the university [and] (d) the furnishing and equipping of the existing and newly erected buildings [.] […]”  Section 67(1) of the Act governs the terms under which university land may be leased.  GFC Facilities Development Committee Terms of Reference  3. MANDATE OF THE COMMITTEE 2. Delegation of Authority Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the terms of reference         above, the Board of Governors and General Faculties Council have delegated to the Facilities Development Committee the following powers and authority: A. Facilities 2 (i) To approve proposals concerning the design and use of all new facilities and the repurposing of existing facilities and to routinely report these decisions for information to the Board of Governors. (ii) In considering such proposals, GFC FDC may provide advice,    upon request, to the Provost and Vice-President (Academic), Vice-President (Facilities and Operations), and/or the University Architect (or their respective delegates) on the siting of such faculties. Attachments  1. Attachment 1 (page 1) – Briefing Note 2. Attachment 2 (boards 1-15) – Augustana Campus Long Range Development Plan Amendment – Open House #1, September 28, 2017 ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "Those who have been informed: ",
                "Those who have been consulted: ",
                "• Expanded campus stakeholders from Augustana Campus and ",
                "Facilities and Operations. ",
                "Those who are actively participating: ",
                "• Augustana Campus LRDP Amendment Steering Committee with ",
                "representations from: ",
                "• the Dean’s Office ",
                "• Faculty members and Administrative Professional Officers ",
                "• President of Student Association and student body ",
                "• Alumni ",
                "• Government and Community Relations, University Relations ",
                "• Office of University Architect, Facilities and Operations ",
                "Alignment/Compliance ",
                "Alignment with Guiding ",
                "Documents ",
                "Comprehensive Institutional Plan ",
                " Institutional Strategic Plan - For the Public Good ",
                "BUILD... ",
                "1. OBJECTIVE: Build a diverse, inclusive community of exceptional ",
                "undergraduate and graduate students from Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, ",
                "and the world. ",
                "i. Strategy: Develop and implement an undergraduate and ",
                "graduate recruitment strategy to attract top students from ",
                "across diverse communities in Alberta and Canada, ",
                "leveraging our strengths as a comprehensive research- ",
                "intensive, multi-campus university with options for ",
                "francophone and rural liberal arts education. ",
                "ii. Strategy: Develop and implement an undergraduate and ",
                "graduate recruitment and retention strategy to attract ",
                "Indigenous students from across Alberta and Canada. ",
                "4. OBJECTIVE: Develop, in consultation and collaboration with internal ",
                "and external community stakeholders, a thoughtful, respectful, ",
                "meaningful, and sustainable response to the report of the Truth and ",
                "Reconciliation Commission of Canada. ",
                "vi.       Strategy: Foster learning opportunities across our campuses ",
                "that enable student, staff, and faculty participation in ",
                "reconciliation. ",
                "5. OBJECTIVE: Build and strengthen trust, connection, and a sense of ",
                "belonging among all members of the university community through a ",
                "focus on shared values. ",
                "i. Strategy: Encourage and support institution-wide initiatives, ",
                "services, and programs, such as arts and cultural activities, ",
                "intramurals, student groups, volunteering, clubs, and centres, ",
                "which bring students from all faculties into community with ",
                "each other. ",
                "EXPERIENCE... ",
                "8. OBJECTIVE: Create and facilitate co-curricular and extracurricular ",
                "learning experiences for undergraduate and graduate students that ",
                "enable their self-discovery and give them the skills to use their talents, ",
                "creativity, and curiosity to contribute as future citizens and leaders. ",
                "i. Strategy: Increase the opportunities for all undergraduate and ",
                "graduate students to experience the benefits of living on ",
                "campus, including guaranteeing the offer of a place in ",
                "residence to every first-year undergraduate student. ",
                "9. OBJECTIVE: Enhance, support, and mobilize the unique experiences ",
                "and cultures of all University of Alberta campuses to the benefit of the ",
                "university as a whole. ",
                "i. Strategy: Facilitate and deepen inter-campus connections, ",
                "communication, and collaborations with Augustana Campus, ",
                "and ensure that it is strengthened as a leading liberal arts ",
                "college, and as a living laboratory for teaching and learning ",
                "innovation, to the benefit of the entire university. ",
                "EXCEL... ",
                "13. OBJECTIVE: Enable University of Alberta researchers to succeed ",
                "and excel. ",
                "iv. Strategy: Secure and sustain funding for the continuous ",
                "evolution and operation of research facilities and resources ",
                "(e.g., libraries, labs, Research Services Office, museums and ",
                "collections, performance spaces, fine arts facilities, and U of ",
                "A Press) to meet the changing needs of our broad-based ",
                "research community. ",
                "ENGAGE... ",
                "16. OBJECTIVE: Enhance, increase, and sustain reciprocal, mutually ",
                "beneficial community relations, community engagement, and community- ",
                "engaged research and scholarship that will extend the reach, ",
                "effectiveness, benefit, and value of our university-community ",
                "connections. ",
                "iv. Strategy: Continue to build mutually beneficial, authentic ",
                "relationships with alumni and donors. ",
                "v. Strategy: Welcome increased community access, ",
                "participation, and engagement at all University of Alberta ",
                "sites, such as our downtown campus at Enterprise Square ",
                "and our sports facilities at South Campus. ",
                "18. OBJECTIVE: Seek, build, strengthen, and sustain partnerships with ",
                "local, national, or international research agencies, governments, ",
                "government ministries and agencies, universities, Indigenous ",
                "communities, libraries, not-for-profits, industry, business, and community ",
                "organizations. ",
                "iii. Strategy: Encourage municipal, provincial, national, and ",
                "international collaborations, partnerships, and MOUs at the ",
                "institutional, faculty, department, unit, and individual levels. ",
                "iv. Strategy: Seek, enhance, and support partnerships with ",
                "industry, including small and medium enterprises. ",
                "SUSTAIN... ",
                "19. OBJECTIVE: Prioritize and sustain student, faculty, and staff health, ",
                "wellness, and safety by delivering proactive, relevant, responsive, and ",
                "accessible services and initiatives. ",
                "i. Strategy: Develop an integrated, institution-wide health and ",
                " wellness strategy, which increases the reach and ",
                "effectiveness of existing health and wellness resources, ",
                "programs, and services, and promotes resilience and work- ",
                "life balance. ",
                "iii. Strategy: Endorse a strong culture of safety awareness, ",
                "knowledge, planning, and practice to ensure the safety of ",
                "students, employees, and visitors to our campuses. ",
                "20. OBJECTIVE: Continue to build and support an integrated approach ",
                "to social, economic, and environmental sustainability that incorporates ",
                "teaching and learning, research, outreach, capacity building, and the ",
                "operations that support them. ",
                "ii. Strategy: Embed social, economic, and environmental ",
                "sustainability into the development and care of the ",
                "university’s natural and built environments. ",
                "23. OBJECTIVE: Ensure that the University of Alberta’s campuses, ",
                "facilities, utility, and information technology infrastructure can continue to ",
                "meet the needs and strategic goals of the university. ",
                "ii. Strategy: Build, operate, and maintain undergraduate and ",
                "graduate student housing to support our students’ academic ",
                "success and sense of belonging to the university community. ",
                "iii. Strategy: Secure and sustain funding to plan, operate, ",
                "expand, renew, and optimize the use of campus infrastructure ",
                "to meet evolving teaching and research priorities. ",
                "Compliance with Legislation, ",
                "Policy and/or Procedure ",
                "Relevant to the Proposal ",
                "(please quote legislation and ",
                "include identifying section ",
                "numbers) ",
                "Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): ",
                "The PSLA gives GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board ",
                "of Governors, over academic affairs (Section 26(1)) and provides that ",
                "GFC may make recommendations to the Board of Governors on a ",
                "building program and related matters (Section 26(1) (o)). ",
                "Section 18(1) of the PSLA give the Board of Governors the authority to ",
                "make any bylaws “appropriate for the management, government and ",
                "control of the university buildings and land.” ",
                "Section 19 of the Act requires that the Board “consider the ",
                "recommendations of the general faculties council, if any, on matters of ",
                "academic import prior to providing for (a) the support and maintenance ",
                "of the university, (b) the betterment of existing buildings, (c) the ",
                "construction of any new buildings the board considers necessary for the ",
                "purposes of the university [and] (d) the furnishing and equipping of the ",
                "existing and newly erected buildings [.] […]” ",
                "Section 67(1) of the Act governs the terms under which university land ",
                "may be leased. ",
                "GFC Facilities Development Committee Terms of Reference ",
                " 3. MANDATE OF THE COMMITTEE ",
                "2. Delegation of Authority ",
                "Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the terms of reference ",
                "above, the Board of Governors and General Faculties Council have ",
                "delegated to the Facilities Development Committee the following powers ",
                "and authority: ",
                "A. Facilities ",
                "2 (i) To approve proposals concerning the design and use of all new ",
                "facilities and the repurposing of existing facilities and to routinely report ",
                "these decisions for information to the Board of Governors. ",
                "(ii) In considering such proposals, GFC FDC may provide advice,    upon ",
                "request, to the Provost and Vice-President (Academic), Vice-President ",
                "(Facilities and Operations), and/or the University Architect (or their ",
                "respective delegates) on the siting of such faculties. ",
                "Attachments ",
                "1. Attachment 1 (page 1) – Briefing Note ",
                "2. Attachment 2 (boards 1-15) – Augustana Campus Long Range Development Plan Amendment – Open ",
                "House #1, September 28, 2017 "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        }
    ],
    "url": "/static/FDC/2017-09-28/Past-Meeting-Material.pdf"
}