{
    "Committee": "GFC",
    "Date": "2017-01-30",
    "Title": "GFC General Faculties Council - 2017-01-30",
    "Location": "Council Chambers",
    "Time": "2:00 PM - 4:00 PM",
    "Attendees": [
        "David Turpin Chair, President and Vice-Chancellor, Statutory",
        "Katherine Aitchison Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Ahmad Al-Dabbagh Member, Graduate Student at-Large",
        "Chris Andersen Member, Dean, Native Studies (Interim)",
        "Susan Andrew Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Lorne Babiuk Member, Vice-President (Research), Statutory",
        "Marina Banister Member, Student Nominated by UG Council of Students",
        "Howard Bashaw Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Gerald Beasley Member, Vice-Provost and Chief Librarian",
        "Darcy Bemister Member, Graduate Student at-Large",
        "Jeff Birchall Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Stanford Blade Member, Dean, Agricultural, Life and Environmental Sciences, Statutory",
        "Michelle Borowitz Member, Graduate Student at-Large",
        "Cary Brown Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Sylvia Brown Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Heather Bruce Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Katy Campbell Member, Dean, Extension, Statutory",
        "Peter Carver Member, Statutory Academic Staff, Law",
        "Colin Champagne Member, Board of Governors Representative, Undergraduate Appointee to",
        "GFC",
        "Li-Kwong Cheah Member, Academic Staff (APO), APO (Academic Staff Representative)",
        "Lisa Collins Member, Vice-Provost and University Registrar, Statutory",
        "Lesley Cormack Member, Dean, Arts, Statutory",
        "André Costopoulos Member, Vice-Provost and Dean of Students",
        "Steven Dew Member, Provost and Vice-President (Academic), Statutory",
        "Joseph Doucet Member, Dean, Business, Statutory",
        "Ryan Dunch Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Tarek El-Bialy Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Duncan Elliott Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Shannon Erichsen Member, Non-Academic Staff (Nominated by NASA)",
        "John Evjen Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Umer Farooq Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Sarah Ficko Member, Board of Governors Representative, President, Graduate Students'",
        "Association",
        "Kyle Foster Member, Graduate Student at-Large",
        "Matthew Fung Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Murray Gingras Member, Statutory Academic Staff, Science",
        "Danny Gomez Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "John Hampson Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Lesley Harrington Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "GFC General Faculties Council 01/30/2017",
        "Page 2",
        "Calvin Howard Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Adina Ilisecu Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Maryam Kebbe Member, Graduate Student at-Large",
        "Firouz Khodayari Member, Student Nominated by GSA Council of Students",
        "Maryse Ndilu Kiese Member, Graduate Student at-Large",
        "Jon Kolo Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Gitta Kulczycki Member, Vice-President (Finance & Administration), Statutory",
        "Reed Larsen Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Pierre Lemelin Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Bernard Lemire Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Monica Lillo Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Wei Liu Member, Non-Academic Staff (Nominated by NASA)",
        "Mark Loewen Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Habba Mahal Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Maria Mayan Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Heather McCaw Member, Vice-President (Advancement), Statutory",
        "Al Meldrum Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Laurie Mereu Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Pierre-Yves Mocquais Member, Dean, Faculté Saint-Jean, Statutory",
        "Anita Molzahn Member, Dean, Nursing, Statutory",
        "Paris Morin Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Colin Mulholland Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Kerry Mummery Member, Dean, Physical Education & Recreation, Statutory",
        "Alice Nakamura Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Carla Peck Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Fahim Rahman Member, Board of Governors Representative, President, Students' Union",
        "Bahador Rashidi Member, Graduate Student at-Large",
        "Leonard Ratzlaff Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Jeremy Richards Member, Board of Governors Representative, GFC Appointee",
        "Carolyn Sale Member, AASUA President and Additional Appointee",
        "Jonathan Schaeffer Member, Dean, Science",
        "Andrew Sharman Member, Vice-President (Facilities and Operations), Statutory",
        "Carrie Smith-Prei Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Kim Solez Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Jorge Sousa Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Andrew Steele Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Lisa Stein Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Bruce Sutherland Member, Statutory Academic Staff, Science",
        "Brent Swallow Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Jacqui Tam Member, Vice-President (University Relations), Statutory",
        "Amy Tse Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Benjamin Tucker Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "LJ Valencia Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Harley Vanselow Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Dilini Vethanayagam Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Amanda Wakaruk Member, University Library Academic Staff",
        "Elizabeth Wallace Member, University Library Academic Staff",
        "Jonathan White Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Brayden Whitlock Member, Graduate Student at-Large",
        "Sheena Wilson Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Kue Young Member, Dean, School of Public Health, Statutory",
        "Denise Young Member, St. Joseph's College Representative, Appointee to GFC",
        "Jack Zhang Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "GFC General Faculties Council 01/30/2017",
        "Page 3",
        "Heather Zwicker Member, Dean, Faculty of Graduate Studies and Research (Interim)",
        "David Turpin President and Chair, General Faculties Council",
        "Logan Mardhani-Bayne Initiatives Manager, Audit & Analysis",
        "Wade King Safe Disclosure and Human Rights Advisor",
        "André Costopoulos Vice-Provost and Dean of Students",
        "Wayne Patterson Executive Director and Acting Associate Vice-President (Human Resources)",
        "Mary Persson Associate Vice-President (Audit and Analysis) and University Auditor",
        "Lisa Collins Vice-Provost and University Registrar",
        "Steven Dew Provost and Vice-President (Academic)",
        "Wendy Rodgers Deputy Provost",
        "Lesley Cormack Dean, Faculty of Arts",
        "Allen Ball Associate Dean (Student Programs: Teaching & Learning), Faculty of Arts",
        "Jonathan White Chair, GFC Nominating Committee",
        "Philip Stack Associate Vice-President (Risk Management Services)",
        "Meg Brolley, GFC Secretary and Manager of GFC Services"
    ],
    "Items": [
        {
            "Item No.": "3",
            "Agenda Title": "For the Public Good: Performance Indicators ",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-01-30",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "Mary Persson (AVP, Audit and Analysis) ",
            "Presenter": " Mary Persson (AVP, Audit and Analysis) and Logan Mardhani-Bayne (Initiatives Manager, Audit and Analysis) ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Office of the President The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) In July 2016, the University established an advisory group to recommend a framework for reporting on performance against For the Public Good (FPG). Following an extensive consultation process, this document presents the approved performance indicators for information. This item is intended to be presented to GFC for information on January 30. Timeline/Implementation Date N/A Supplementary Notes and context The attachments provide additional details on the performance indicators and membership of the advisory group.  Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> Those who have been informed: • Chairs’ Council – Sept. 20 • Deans’ Council – Sept. 21  Those who have been consulted: • Office of the President (review and comment) • Office of the Provost (review and comment) • University Research Planning Committee – Sept. 29  • President’s Executive Committee – Strategic – Sept. 30  • Deans’ Council – Oct. 5 • GFC Academic Planning Committee – Oct. 12 • Provosts’ Advisory Council of Chairs – Oct. 17 • GFC Executive Committee – Oct. 17 • Board of Governors – Oct. 21 • Vice-Provosts’ Council – Oct. 24 • General Faculties Council – Nov. 21 • Board Audit Committee – Nov. 21 • Board Learning and Discovery Committee – Nov. 25 • Board of Governors – Dec. 16 • President’s Executive Committee – Strategic – Jan. 5 Those who are actively participating: • See attachment for advisory group membership Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents Institutional Strategic Plan - For the Public Good (item presents recommended performance indicators) Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) “26(1) Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council is responsible for the academic affairs of the university”’ http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nItem No.5 GENERAL FACULTIES COUNCIL For the Meeting of January 30, 2017 (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) “60(1) The board of a public post-secondary institution shall (a) manage and operate the public post-secondary institution in accordance with its mandate, (b) develop, manage and operate, alone or in co-operation with any person or organization, programs, services and facilities for the economic prosperity of Alberta and for the educational or cultural advancement of the people of Alberta” 2. General Faculties Council Terms of Reference (3. Mandate of the Committee) “The issues which remain with GFC or which would be referred by a Standing Committee to GFC would generally be in the nature of the following: • high level strategic and stewardship policy issues or matters of significant risk to the University” 3. GFC Executive Committee Terms of Reference (3. Mandate of the Committee) “GFC has delegated to the Executive Committee the authority to decide which items are placed on a GFC Agenda, and the order in which those agenda items appear on each GFC agenda.” Attachments (each to be numbered 1 - <>) 1. For the Public Good (FPG) – Approved Performance Indicators (page(s) 1 - 10) 2. FPG Performance Indicators Advisory Group – membership (1 page) ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "<For further information see ",
                "the link posted on the ",
                "Governance Toolkit section ",
                "Student Participation Protocol> ",
                "Those who have been informed: ",
                "• Chairs’ Council – Sept. 20 ",
                "• Deans’ Council – Sept. 21 ",
                "Those who have been consulted: ",
                "• Office of the President (review and comment) ",
                "• Office of the Provost (review and comment) ",
                "• University Research Planning Committee – Sept. 29 ",
                "• President’s Executive Committee – Strategic – Sept. 30 ",
                "• Deans’ Council – Oct. 5 ",
                "• GFC Academic Planning Committee – Oct. 12 ",
                "• Provosts’ Advisory Council of Chairs – Oct. 17 ",
                "• GFC Executive Committee – Oct. 17 ",
                "• Board of Governors – Oct. 21 ",
                "• Vice-Provosts’ Council – Oct. 24 ",
                "• General Faculties Council – Nov. 21 ",
                "• Board Audit Committee – Nov. 21 ",
                "• Board Learning and Discovery Committee – Nov. 25 ",
                "• Board of Governors – Dec. 16 ",
                "• President’s Executive Committee – Strategic – Jan. 5 ",
                "Those who are actively participating: ",
                "• See attachment for advisory group membership ",
                "Alignment/Compliance ",
                "Alignment with Guiding ",
                "Documents ",
                "Institutional Strategic Plan - For the Public Good (item presents ",
                "recommended performance indicators) ",
                "Compliance with Legislation, ",
                "Policy and/or Procedure ",
                "Relevant to the Proposal ",
                "1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) ",
                "“26(1) Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council is ",
                "responsible for the academic affairs of the university”’ ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx ",
                "Item No.5 ",
                "GENERAL FACULTIES COUNCIL ",
                "For the Meeting of January 30, 2017 ",
                "(please quote legislation and ",
                "include identifying section ",
                "numbers) ",
                "“60(1) The board of a public post-secondary institution shall ",
                "(a) manage and operate the public post-secondary institution in ",
                "accordance with its mandate, ",
                "(b) develop, manage and operate, alone or in co-operation with any ",
                "person or organization, programs, services and facilities for the ",
                "economic prosperity of Alberta and for the educational or cultural ",
                "advancement of the people of Alberta” ",
                "2. General Faculties Council Terms of Reference (3. Mandate of the ",
                "Committee) ",
                "“The issues which remain with GFC or which would be referred by a ",
                "Standing Committee to GFC would generally be in the nature of the ",
                "following: ",
                "• high level strategic and stewardship policy issues or matters of ",
                "significant risk to the University” ",
                "3. GFC Executive Committee Terms of Reference (3. Mandate of the ",
                "Committee) ",
                "“GFC has delegated to the Executive Committee the authority to decide ",
                "which items are placed on a GFC Agenda, and the order in which those ",
                "agenda items appear on each GFC agenda.” ",
                "Attachments (each to be numbered 1 - <>) ",
                "1. For the Public Good (FPG) – Approved Performance Indicators (page(s) 1 - 10) ",
                "2. FPG Performance Indicators Advisory Group – membership (1 page) "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "7",
            "Agenda Title": "Bachelor of Arts Curriculum Renewal, Faculty of Arts ",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-01-30",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "Lesley Cormack, Dean, Faculty of Arts ",
            "Presenter": "s Allen Ball and Rebecca Nagel, Associate Deans, Student Programs ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) To provide an overview of and answer questions about the BA Curriculum Renewal from the Faculty of Arts. Timeline/Implementation Date September 1, 2018 Supplementary Notes and context The current structure of the Faculty of Arts Bachelor of Arts (BA) Basic Requirements has been in place since the 2006 – 2007 academic year. In November 2011, Arts Faculty Council approved a five year Academic Plan that included a systematic review of the BA general requirements.  The ensuing consultation process has led to this final version of the BA Renewal Proposal. The goal of the BA Curriculum Renewal is to develop a sustainable BA program that provides Arts students with an exemplary undergraduate degree.  A renewed BA in the Faculty of Arts must be flexible enough to accommodate the exceptional breadth and depth in programming offered in our Faculty. This renewed BA must also continue to enable a broad range of pedagogical methods, from traditional instructional strategies to community-engaged experiential learning, while retaining our rigorous academic standards. The Faculty of Arts has provided a web link on our homepage to the entire history of the BA Renewal process, proposal and appendices. Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> Those who have been informed: • All Arts faculty and staff • All Arts undergraduate students • Faculty of Arts undergraduate students’ association (OASIS) • University of Alberta Students’ Union • Associates Deans (Undergraduate) across the University • Office of the Provost • Faculty of Arts Alumni Those who have been consulted: Associate Dean Ball has: • During the 2015-2016 academic year, Associate Dean Ball held individual meetings with all 15 Faculty of Arts Department Chairs, as well as the Executive Director of Community Service-Learning https://www.ualberta.ca/arts/about/ba-renewal\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nand the Director of the Office of Interdisciplinary Studies  • Ongoing updates on the BA Curriculum Renewal process have been provided by Associate Dean Ball to members of the central administration, including:  o Meg Brolley, General Faculty Council Secretary o Dr. Sarah Forgie, Vice Provost (Learning Initiatives) o Dr. Nat Kav, Vice Provost (Academic Programs and Instruction) o Kate Peters, Portfolio Initiatives Manager, Office of the Provost and Vice-President (Academic) o Dr. Christine Brown, Head Librarian The potential changes to our BA have also been discussed with Faculties across campus.  • Dr. Jason Carey, Associate Dean (Programs & Planning), Faculty of Engineering • Dr. Janice Causgrove Dunn, Associate Dean (Undergraduate Programs), Faculty of Physical Education and Recreation • Dr. Robin Everall, Interim Vice-Provost and Dean of Students • Dr. Elaine Geddes, Associate Dean (Undergraduate), Alberta School of Business • Dr. Clive Hickson, Associate Dean (Undergraduate Programs and Services), Faculty of Education • Dr. Tim Joseph, Associate Dean (Student & Co-op Services), Faculty of Engineering • Dr. Brenda Leskiw, Senior Associate Dean (Undergraduate), Faculty of Science • Dr. Karsten Mundel, Director & Associate Dean (Academic), Augustana Campus • Dr. Frank Tough, Associate Dean (Academic), Faculty of Native Studies  • An update on the BA Curriculum Renewal consultation process was presented by Associate Dean Ball at Arts Faculty Council on October 5, 2015.  • The process has also been discussed extensively in each 2015-\n2016 Arts Teaching and Learning Enhancement Committee and at the Associate Chairs (Undergraduate) 2015-2016 meetings.  • Roundtable sessions have taken place with the Undergraduate Student Services staff to address the possible administrative impacts of different changes to the BA common requirements. o In addition, the Recruitment and Engagement team have articulated the needs and interests of prospective students. • The Faculty of Arts: BA Curriculum Renewal Discussion Paper was distributed across the Faculty on January 8, 2016. The proposal was initially discussed at Faculty of Arts Chairs Council on January 20, 2016, and again at Faculty of Arts Chairs Council on February 3, 2016. Associate Dean Ball also presented and discussed the proposal at Arts Executive Council on February 25, 2016.  • A town hall meeting was held on February 5, 2016.  o More than 100 students, staff, and faculty attended this open forum.  • An online form was also circulated prior to the event, inviting feedback about the BA Curriculum Renewal Discussion Paper from those who would not be able to attend the town hall.  • During Winter 2016, Associate Dean Ball presented the BA Curriculum Renewal Discussion Paper at the following Departmental Councils: Anthropology; Art and Design; English and Film Studies; History and Classics; Linguistics; Modern Languages and Cultural Studies; and Philosophy.  • We have developed an open and robust dialogue with Arts students about the renewal process through numerous discussions with our Faculty of Arts Students’ Association, OASIS (Organization for Arts Students and Interdisciplinary Studies).  • Associate Dean Ball was invited to participate in a student town hall organized by OASIS on March 8, 2016. All BA students were invited to attend to ask questions and give feedback.  o The event was well attended and the students’ thoughtful observations, along with the complete record of students’ contributions, were added to the Faculty’s consideration of the BA Curriculum Renewal.  • A survey was distributed on March 10, 2016 (closing March 20, 2016), to gauge students’ and faculty members’ initial response to the BA Renewal Discussion Paper.  o The survey garnered nearly 1000 responses, with 831 students and 167 faculty members submitting their opinions. The aggregated results were made available on April 7, 2016. 3  • On April 27, 2016 Associate Dean Ball met with the executive members of OASIS to discuss the results of the surveys. • Associate Dean Ball met with representatives from the Graduate Student Association (GSA) on May 19, 2016 to explore the impacts the proposed changes to the BA may have on graduate student recruitment and retention.  • A meeting to discuss the BA Renewal Proposal with OASIS was held on September 22, 2016.  • Dean Lesley Cormack moderated a second town hall meeting on September 30, 2016.  o Once again, more than 100 students, staff, and faculty attended this open forum.  o A video recording of the town hall can be viewed online.  o An online form was circulated prior to the event, inviting feedback about the BA Curriculum Renewal Discussion Paper from those who would not be able to attend the town hall.  o An update on the BA Renewal Proposal process was presented by Associate Dean Ball at Arts Faculty Council on October 3, 2016. Those who are actively participating: • Dean Lesley Cormack (History and Classics) • Acting Dean/Vice-Dean Lise Gotell (Women’s and Gender Studies) • Acting Vice-Dean Stuart Landon (Economics) • Associate Dean (Graduate) Tom Spalding (Psychology)  • Associate Dean (Research) Michael O’Driscoll (English and Film Studies) • Associate Dean (Research) Steve Patten (Political Science) • Associate Dean (Student Programs) Rebecca Nagel (History and Classics)  • Associate Dean (Student Programs: Teaching & Learning) Allen Ball (Art and Design) • Senior Officer (Student Programs & Services) Robin A Cowan Formal Governance Path: The proposed changes to the BA Basic Requirements follow the standard governance pathway.  • Within the Faculty of Arts, changes were reviewed and unanimously approved by  o Academic Affairs Committee (AAC) on October 26, 2016,  and  o Arts Executive Committee (AEC) on November 3, 2016.  • And passed by Arts Faculty Council (AFC) on November 24, 2016.  These changes will affect calendar section entries for the Bachelor of Arts (BA), BA Honors Program Requirements, and the After Degree Programs  Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents BUILD • This BA renewal proposal forms a critical part of a broader effort by the Faculty of Arts to offer a truly outstanding BA program that will attract and retain the very best and brightest students from Alberta, Canada, and the world. EXPERIENCE • The revised BA will provide space for students to engage in one or more of the variety of exceptional experiential learning opportunities, whether it be research, study abroad, community-\nservice learning, or work experience. EXCEL • We believe that the proposed BA redesign will make the Faculty of Arts attractive to students across Canada, creating room for distinction and distinctiveness in teaching, learning, research, and service, since the redesign allows departments to refocus course offerings in areas of excellence and interest to students. ENGAGE • Faculty emphasis is on community engagement.  The revised BA allows us to expand opportunities for students within their degree programs to reach broader and more diverse community partners while deepening ties to current partners.  (for example, allowing more room for students to engage in work experience, community service-learning, international learning experiences, and research with their instructors in the community). SUSTAIN • The revised BA maintains breadth and depth in study, while allowing Departments the opportunity redirect teaching resources to areas of excellence. • The proposed requirements facilitate more straightforward transition for students transferring to Arts from other programs at the University of Alberta and other post-secondary institutions than is currently possible. • A flexible Arts degree means that our students will easily be able to accommodate any mandated Faculty or University-wide Indigenous studies requirement in their degrees, should this requirement be embraced institutionally.  Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The PSLA gives GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs (Section 26(1)).  2. PSLA: GFC may make recommendations to the Board of Governors on a number of matters including the budget and academic planning (Section 26(1)(o)). GFC delegates its power to recommend to the Board on the budget and on new or revised academic programs to the GFC Academic Planning Committee (APC).  3. PSLA: The PSLA gives Faculty Councils the authority to “determine the programs of study for which the faculty is established” (Section 29(1)(a)); to “provide for the admission of students to the faculty” (Section 29(1)(c)); and to “determine the conditions under which a student must withdraw from or may continue the student’s program of studies in a faculty” (Section 29(1)(d)).  4. GFC Policy Manual - Section 37.1 Approval of New Courses; Challenging Procedures; Changes to Existing Programs; Discontinuance of Service Course […] E. Changes to Existing Undergraduate Programs 1. Faculty Councils shall approve program changes and submit them to the Secretary to GFC. 2. The Secretary to GFC shall then: a. Circulate the changes in accordance with procedures governing course changes. Challenges should be lodged with the Secretary to GFC, who shall notify the Registrar and the Provost and Vice-President (Academic) of any challenge. Changes to existing programs may not be implemented until a challenge is resolved, and, b. Forward program changes to the Provost and Vice-President (Academic), who will discuss them with Deans of affected or interested Faculties and the Chair of the GFC Academic Standards Committee, where the Provost and Vice-President perceives this to be necessary or useful. (GFC 29 SEP 2003) 3. Any challenge to a program change arising from step 2(a) shall be coordinated by the Secretary to GFC, in consultation with the Provost and Vice-President (Academic), who together will ensure that Faculties are subject to only one negotiation procedure and approval route. (GFC 29 SEP 2003) 4. Any concerns of another Dean or Deans or of the Provost and Vice-\nPresident (Academic), arising from step 2(b), shall be discussed with the Dean of the originating Faculty, who may, if the Dean sees fit, recommend to his/her Faculty Council a revision of the changes. a. If the proposed changes are not accepted by the Deans and the Provost and Vice-President (Academic) the changes, together with supporting and opposing statements, will be considered by APC and submitted to the Executive Committee of GFC, which shall hear representations from the Deans and/or the Provost and Vice-President (Academic), and shall then approve or reject the proposed changes. b. Any Dean may appeal the decision of GFC Executive to GFC itself.” Attachments (each to be numbered 1 - 3) 1. Proposed Calendar changes (12 pages) 2. Faculty of Arts: BA Curriculum Renewal Proposal (November 2016 – 11 pages) 3. Appendices (95 pages) ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "<For further information see ",
                "the link posted on the ",
                "Governance Toolkit section ",
                "Student Participation Protocol> ",
                "Those who have been informed: ",
                "• All Arts faculty and staff ",
                "• All Arts undergraduate students ",
                "• Faculty of Arts undergraduate students’ association (OASIS) ",
                "• University of Alberta Students’ Union ",
                "• Associates Deans (Undergraduate) across the University ",
                "• Office of the Provost ",
                "• Faculty of Arts Alumni ",
                "Those who have been consulted: ",
                "Associate Dean Ball has: ",
                "• During the 2015-2016 academic year, Associate Dean Ball held ",
                "individual meetings with all 15 Faculty of Arts Department Chairs, ",
                "as well as the Executive Director of Community Service-Learning ",
                "https://www.ualberta.ca/arts/about/ba-renewal ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx ",
                "and the Director of the Office of Interdisciplinary Studies ",
                "• Ongoing updates on the BA Curriculum Renewal process have ",
                "been provided by Associate Dean Ball to members of the central ",
                "administration, including: ",
                "o Meg Brolley, General Faculty Council Secretary ",
                "o Dr. Sarah Forgie, Vice Provost (Learning Initiatives) ",
                "o Dr. Nat Kav, Vice Provost (Academic Programs and ",
                "Instruction) ",
                "o Kate Peters, Portfolio Initiatives Manager, Office of the ",
                "Provost and Vice-President (Academic) ",
                "o Dr. Christine Brown, Head Librarian ",
                "The potential changes to our BA have also been discussed with ",
                "Faculties across campus. ",
                "• Dr. Jason Carey, Associate Dean (Programs & Planning), ",
                "Faculty of Engineering ",
                "• Dr. Janice Causgrove Dunn, Associate Dean (Undergraduate ",
                "Programs), Faculty of Physical Education and Recreation ",
                "• Dr. Robin Everall, Interim Vice-Provost and Dean of Students ",
                "• Dr. Elaine Geddes, Associate Dean (Undergraduate), Alberta ",
                "School of Business ",
                "• Dr. Clive Hickson, Associate Dean (Undergraduate Programs ",
                "and Services), Faculty of Education ",
                "• Dr. Tim Joseph, Associate Dean (Student & Co-op Services), ",
                "Faculty of Engineering ",
                "• Dr. Brenda Leskiw, Senior Associate Dean (Undergraduate), ",
                "Faculty of Science ",
                "• Dr. Karsten Mundel, Director & Associate Dean (Academic), ",
                "Augustana Campus ",
                "• Dr. Frank Tough, Associate Dean (Academic), Faculty of ",
                "Native Studies ",
                "• An update on the BA Curriculum Renewal consultation process ",
                "was presented by Associate Dean Ball at Arts Faculty Council on ",
                "October 5, 2015. ",
                "• The process has also been discussed extensively in each 2015- ",
                "2016 Arts Teaching and Learning Enhancement Committee and ",
                "at the Associate Chairs (Undergraduate) 2015-2016 meetings. ",
                "• Roundtable sessions have taken place with the Undergraduate ",
                "Student Services staff to address the possible administrative ",
                "impacts of different changes to the BA common requirements. ",
                "o In addition, the Recruitment and Engagement team have ",
                "articulated the needs and interests of prospective ",
                "students. ",
                "• The Faculty of Arts: BA Curriculum Renewal Discussion Paper ",
                "was distributed across the Faculty on January 8, 2016. The ",
                "proposal was initially discussed at Faculty of Arts Chairs Council ",
                "on January 20, 2016, and again at Faculty of Arts Chairs Council ",
                "on February 3, 2016. Associate Dean Ball also presented and ",
                "discussed the proposal at Arts Executive Council on February 25, ",
                "2016. ",
                "• A town hall meeting was held on February 5, 2016. ",
                "o More than 100 students, staff, and faculty attended this ",
                "open forum. ",
                "• An online form was also circulated prior to the event, inviting ",
                "feedback about the BA Curriculum Renewal Discussion Paper ",
                "from those who would not be able to attend the town hall. ",
                "• During Winter 2016, Associate Dean Ball presented the BA ",
                "Curriculum Renewal Discussion Paper at the following ",
                "Departmental Councils: Anthropology; Art and Design; English ",
                "and Film Studies; History and Classics; Linguistics; Modern ",
                "Languages and Cultural Studies; and Philosophy. ",
                "• We have developed an open and robust dialogue with Arts ",
                "students about the renewal process through numerous ",
                "discussions with our Faculty of Arts Students’ Association, ",
                "OASIS (Organization for Arts Students and Interdisciplinary ",
                "Studies). ",
                "• Associate Dean Ball was invited to participate in a student town ",
                "hall organized by OASIS on March 8, 2016. All BA students were ",
                "invited to attend to ask questions and give feedback. ",
                "o The event was well attended and the students’ thoughtful ",
                "observations, along with the complete record of students’ ",
                "contributions, were added to the Faculty’s consideration ",
                "of the BA Curriculum Renewal. ",
                "• A survey was distributed on March 10, 2016 (closing March 20, ",
                "2016), to gauge students’ and faculty members’ initial response ",
                "to the BA Renewal Discussion Paper. ",
                "o The survey garnered nearly 1000 responses, with 831 ",
                "students and 167 faculty members submitting their ",
                "opinions. The aggregated results were made available on ",
                "April 7, 2016. 3 ",
                "• On April 27, 2016 Associate Dean Ball met with the executive ",
                "members of OASIS to discuss the results of the surveys. ",
                "• Associate Dean Ball met with representatives from the Graduate ",
                "Student Association (GSA) on May 19, 2016 to explore the ",
                "impacts the proposed changes to the BA may have on graduate ",
                "student recruitment and retention. ",
                "• A meeting to discuss the BA Renewal Proposal with OASIS was ",
                "held on September 22, 2016. ",
                "• Dean Lesley Cormack moderated a second town hall meeting on ",
                "September 30, 2016. ",
                "o Once again, more than 100 students, staff, and faculty ",
                "attended this open forum. ",
                "o A video recording of the town hall can be viewed online. ",
                "o An online form was circulated prior to the event, inviting ",
                "feedback about the BA Curriculum Renewal Discussion ",
                "Paper from those who would not be able to attend the ",
                "town hall. ",
                "o An update on the BA Renewal Proposal process was ",
                "presented by Associate Dean Ball at Arts Faculty Council ",
                "on October 3, 2016. ",
                "Those who are actively participating: ",
                "• Dean Lesley Cormack (History and Classics) ",
                "• Acting Dean/Vice-Dean Lise Gotell (Women’s and Gender ",
                "Studies) ",
                "• Acting Vice-Dean Stuart Landon (Economics) ",
                "• Associate Dean (Graduate) Tom Spalding (Psychology) ",
                "• Associate Dean (Research) Michael O’Driscoll (English and Film ",
                "Studies) ",
                "• Associate Dean (Research) Steve Patten (Political Science) ",
                "• Associate Dean (Student Programs) Rebecca Nagel (History and ",
                "Classics) ",
                "• Associate Dean (Student Programs: Teaching & Learning) Allen ",
                "Ball (Art and Design) ",
                "• Senior Officer (Student Programs & Services) Robin A Cowan ",
                "Formal Governance Path: ",
                "The proposed changes to the BA Basic Requirements follow the ",
                "standard governance pathway. ",
                "• Within the Faculty of Arts, changes were reviewed and ",
                "unanimously approved by ",
                "o Academic Affairs Committee (AAC) on October 26, 2016, ",
                "and ",
                "o Arts Executive Committee (AEC) on November 3, 2016. ",
                "• And passed by Arts Faculty Council (AFC) on November 24, ",
                "2016. ",
                "These changes will affect calendar section entries for the Bachelor of ",
                "Arts (BA), BA Honors Program Requirements, and the After Degree ",
                "Programs ",
                "Alignment/Compliance ",
                "Alignment with Guiding ",
                "Documents ",
                "BUILD ",
                "• This BA renewal proposal forms a critical part of a broader effort ",
                "by the Faculty of Arts to offer a truly outstanding BA program that ",
                "will attract and retain the very best and brightest students from ",
                "Alberta, Canada, and the world. ",
                "EXPERIENCE ",
                "• The revised BA will provide space for students to engage in one ",
                "or more of the variety of exceptional experiential learning ",
                "opportunities, whether it be research, study abroad, community- ",
                "service learning, or work experience. ",
                "EXCEL ",
                "• We believe that the proposed BA redesign will make the Faculty ",
                "of Arts attractive to students across Canada, creating room for ",
                "distinction and distinctiveness in teaching, learning, research, ",
                "and service, since the redesign allows departments to refocus ",
                "course offerings in areas of excellence and interest to students. ",
                "ENGAGE ",
                "• Faculty emphasis is on community engagement.  The revised BA ",
                "allows us to expand opportunities for students within their degree ",
                "programs to reach broader and more diverse community partners ",
                "while deepening ties to current partners.  (for example, allowing ",
                "more room for students to engage in work experience, ",
                "community service-learning, international learning experiences, ",
                "and research with their instructors in the community). ",
                "SUSTAIN ",
                "• The revised BA maintains breadth and depth in study, while ",
                "allowing Departments the opportunity redirect teaching resources ",
                "to areas of excellence. ",
                "• The proposed requirements facilitate more straightforward ",
                "transition for students transferring to Arts from other programs at ",
                "the University of Alberta and other post-secondary institutions ",
                "than is currently possible. ",
                "• A flexible Arts degree means that our students will easily be able ",
                "to accommodate any mandated Faculty or University-wide ",
                "Indigenous studies requirement in their degrees, should this ",
                "requirement be embraced institutionally. ",
                "Compliance with Legislation, ",
                "Policy and/or Procedure ",
                "Relevant to the Proposal ",
                "(please quote legislation and ",
                "include identifying section ",
                "numbers) ",
                "1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The PSLA gives GFC ",
                "responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over ",
                "academic affairs (Section 26(1)). ",
                "2. PSLA: GFC may make recommendations to the Board of Governors ",
                "on a number of matters including the budget and academic planning ",
                "(Section 26(1)(o)). GFC delegates its power to recommend to the Board ",
                "on the budget and on new or revised academic programs to the GFC ",
                "Academic Planning Committee (APC). ",
                "3. PSLA: The PSLA gives Faculty Councils the authority to “determine ",
                "the programs of study for which the faculty is established” (Section ",
                "29(1)(a)); to “provide for the admission of students to the faculty” ",
                "(Section 29(1)(c)); and to “determine the conditions under which a ",
                "student must withdraw from or may continue the student’s program of ",
                "studies in a faculty” (Section 29(1)(d)). ",
                "4. GFC Policy Manual - Section 37.1 Approval of New Courses; ",
                "Challenging Procedures; Changes to Existing Programs; Discontinuance ",
                "of Service Course […] ",
                "E. Changes to Existing Undergraduate Programs ",
                "1. Faculty Councils shall approve program changes and submit them to ",
                "the Secretary to GFC. ",
                "2. The Secretary to GFC shall then: ",
                "a. Circulate the changes in accordance with procedures governing ",
                "course changes. Challenges should be lodged with the Secretary to ",
                "GFC, who shall notify the Registrar and the Provost and Vice-President ",
                "(Academic) of any challenge. Changes to existing programs may not be ",
                "implemented until a challenge is resolved, ",
                "and, ",
                "b. Forward program changes to the Provost and Vice-President ",
                "(Academic), who will discuss them with Deans of affected or interested ",
                "Faculties and the Chair of the GFC Academic Standards Committee, ",
                "where the Provost and Vice-President perceives this to be necessary or ",
                "useful. (GFC 29 SEP 2003) ",
                "3. Any challenge to a program change arising from step 2(a) shall be ",
                "coordinated by the Secretary to GFC, in consultation with the Provost ",
                "and Vice-President (Academic), who together will ensure that Faculties ",
                "are subject to only one negotiation procedure and approval route. (GFC ",
                "29 SEP 2003) ",
                "4. Any concerns of another Dean or Deans or of the Provost and Vice- ",
                "President (Academic), arising from step 2(b), shall be discussed with the ",
                "Dean of the originating Faculty, who may, if the Dean sees fit, ",
                "recommend to his/her Faculty Council a revision of the changes. ",
                "a. If the proposed changes are not accepted by the Deans and the ",
                "Provost and Vice-President (Academic) the changes, together with ",
                "supporting and opposing statements, will be considered by APC and ",
                "submitted to the Executive Committee of GFC, which shall hear ",
                "representations from the Deans and/or the Provost and Vice-President ",
                "(Academic), and shall then approve or reject the proposed changes. ",
                "b. Any Dean may appeal the decision of GFC Executive to GFC itself.” ",
                "Attachments (each to be numbered 1 - 3) ",
                "1. Proposed Calendar changes (12 pages) ",
                "2. Faculty of Arts: BA Curriculum Renewal Proposal (November 2016 – 11 pages) ",
                "3. Appendices (95 pages) "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "8",
            "Agenda Title": "Proposed Revisions to the Discrimination, Harassment and Duty to Accommodate Policy and Related Procedures ",
            "Motion": " THAT General Faculties Council, as recommended by the GFC Academic Planning Committee, recommend that the Board of Governors approve the proposed revisions to the Discrimination, Harassment and Duty to Accommodate Policy and related Procedures as set forth in Attachments 1, 2 and 3, to take effect upon final approval. ",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-01-30",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "Vice-President (Finance and Administration) Provost  and Vice-President (Academic) ",
            "Presenter": " Logan Mardhani-Bayne (Initiatives Manager, Audit and Analysis) Wade King (Senior Advisor, Office of Safe Disclosure and Human Rights) ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Vice-President (Finance and Administration)  Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) To update the Policy and related Procedures as follows: • Update definitions and text to account for amendments to Alberta Human Rights Act • Update names, descriptions and responsibilities of campus services to reflect current names and functions • Clarify status of post-doctoral fellows under this policy by referencing applicable policy already in place • Transfer procedural information from Policy to Procedure and merge existing Discrimination and Harassment Procedures to comply with standard university practice and for clarity • Update Related Links to reflect current resources • Apply other minor textual edits for clarity and to reflect current practice The Impact of the Proposal is To bring the Policy into alignment with the Alberta Human Rights Act and to improve clarity to users of the policy. Replaces/Revises (eg, policies, resolutions) Discrimination, Harassment and Duty to Accommodate Policy Duty to Accommodate Procedure Discrimination and Harassment – Allegations Against Staff Procedure Discrimination and Harassment – Allegations Against Students Procedure Timeline/Implementation Date Upon final approval Estimated Cost /funding source N/A Next Steps (ie.: Communications Plan, Implementation plans) Following governance approval, revised policy and procedures will be communicated through outreach activities of the Office of Safe Disclosure and Human Rights Supplementary Notes and context See Policy and Procedures (redline versions) and Summary of Input from NASA.  Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> Those who have been informed: •  Those who have been consulted: • Office of the Provost (Initiatives Manager and SAO) • Advancement (SAO) • University Relations (SAO) • Research (SAO) • Finance and Administration (SAO and VP) • Facilities and Operations (SAO) • Student Conduct and Accountability (Director, Student Judicial Affairs) • Students’ Union (President) • Graduate Students’ Association (President) • Human Resource Services (OHE, Faculty Relations) • Student Accessibility Services and Student Success Centre • UAPS (Director) • Sexual Assault Centre (Director) • General Counsel (Senior Counsel) • AASUA • NASA • Vice-Provosts’ Council (Oct. 17) • President’s Executive Committee – Operations (Oct. 27) Those who are actively participating: • Office of Safe Disclosure and Human Rights (Senior Advisor) Approval Route (Governance) (including meeting dates) GFC Academic Planning Committee – December 14, 2016 GFC Executive Committee – January 16, 2017 General Faculties Council – January 30, 2017 Board Human Resources and Compensation Committee – Feb 28, 2017 Board Safety, Health and Environment Committee – March 1, 2017 Board of Governors – March 17, 2017 Final Approver Board of Governors Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents For the Public Good Goal: BUILD Objective 2, Strategy ii: Review, improve, and implement equity processes and procedures for recruiting and supporting faculty to ensure a balanced academy, representative of women, visible minorities, sexual and gender minorities, Indigenous peoples, and people with disabilities. Objective 3, Strategy ii: Review, improve, and implement equity processes and procedures for recruiting and supporting staff to ensure that all categories of staff are representative of women, visible minorities, sexual and gender minorities, Indigenous peoples, and people with disabilities. http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nCompliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1.  Post-Secondary Learning Act:  The Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) gives the Board of Governors the authority to “develop, manage and operate, alone or in co-operation with any person or organization, programs, services and facilities for the educational or cultural advancement of the people of Alberta” (Section 60(1)).  Further, the Board of Governors “must consider the recommendations of the general faculties council, if any, on matters of academic import prior to providing for […] any other activities the board considers necessary or advantageous”  (Section 19(e)). 2.  Post-Secondary Learning Act:  The PSLA gives General Faculties Council (GFC) responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs (Section 26(1)) and over student affairs (Section 31), including authority concerning \"student discipline.\"  3. Alberta Human Rights Act: “4 No person shall … (b) discriminate against any person or class of persons with respect to any goods, services, accommodation or facilities that are customarily available to the public, because of the race, religious beliefs, colour, gender, gender identity, gender expression, physical disability, mental disability, ancestry, place of origin, marital status, source of income, family status or sexual orientation of that person or class of persons or of any other person or class of persons. 7(1) No employer shall … (b) discriminate against any person with regard to employment or any term or condition of employment, because of the race, religious beliefs, colour, gender, gender identity, gender expression, physical disability, mental disability, age, ancestry, place of origin, marital status, source of income, family status or sexual orientation of that person or of any other person.” 4.   GFC Academic Planning Committee  Terms of Reference (Mandate):   “The Academic Planning Committee (APC) is GFC's senior committee dealing with academic, financial and planning issues. […] [T]he President, Provost and Vice-President (Academic) or other Vice-\nPresidents may refer any matter to APC for consideration or recommendation to GFC. APC is also responsible to GFC for promoting an optimal learning environment for students and excellence in teaching, research, and graduate studies.” 5. GFC Executive Committee Terms of Reference   “5.  Agendas of General Faculties Council GFC has delegated to the Executive Committee the authority to decide which items are placed on a GFC Agenda, and the order in which those agenda items appear on each GFC agenda.   […] When recommendations are forwarded to General Faculties Council from APC, the role of the Executive shall be to decide the order in which items should be considered by GFC. The Executive Committee is responsible for providing general advice to the Chair about proposals being forwarded form APC to GFC.” 6. General Faculties Council Terms of Reference (Mandate)  “The issues which remain with GFC or which would be referred by a Standing Committee to GFC would generally be in the nature of the following: • high level strategic and stewardship policy issues or matters of significant risk to the University”  7. Board Human Resources and Compensation Committee (BHRCC) Terms of Reference: “3.  MANDATE OF THE COMMITTEE Except as provided in paragraph 4 and in the Board's General Committee Terms of Reference, the Committee shall monitor, evaluate, advise and make decisions on behalf of the Board with respect to, and the Board delegates to the Committee responsibility and authority for, all policies and procedures affecting staff working conditions at the University and matters for collective bargaining and related service contracts. The Committee shall also consider any other matter delegated to the Committee by the Board. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing the Committee shall: […] c) review and approve material changes to personnel policies of the University that are outside the regular collective bargaining process and consider trends affecting such policies;” 8. Board Safety, Health and Environment Committee (BSHEC) Terms of Reference:  “3. Mandate of the Committee  Except as provided in paragraph 4 hereof and in the Board’s General Committee Terms of Reference, the Committee shall monitor, evaluate, advise and make decisions on behalf of the Board with respect to all matters concerning environmental health and the protection of the health, safety and security of the University community and the general public at the University as well as University student health and wellness. The Committee shall also consider any other matter delegated to the Committee by the Board.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing the Committee shall:  a) provide oversight regarding the environmental health, safety and security of the University community:  (i) approve University policies and procedures relating to environmental health, safety, and security issues and compliance therewith;  b) provide oversight regarding student health and wellness initiatives and strategies on campus:  (i) review and approve University policies and procedures relating to student health and wellness issues;  Attachments: 1.  Discrimination, Harassment and Duty to Accommodate Policy (pages 1 - 10) 2.  Discrimination and Harassment Complaint Procedure (pages 1 - 6) 3.  Duty to Accommodate Procedure (pages 1-8) 4.  Summary of Input from the Non-Academic Staff Association (pages 1 - 3) ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "<For further information see ",
                "the link posted on ",
                "the Governance Toolkit section ",
                "Student Participation Protocol> ",
                "Those who have been informed: ",
                "• ",
                "Those who have been consulted: ",
                "• Office of the Provost (Initiatives Manager and SAO) ",
                "• Advancement (SAO) ",
                "• University Relations (SAO) ",
                "• Research (SAO) ",
                "• Finance and Administration (SAO and VP) ",
                "• Facilities and Operations (SAO) ",
                "• Student Conduct and Accountability (Director, Student Judicial ",
                "Affairs) ",
                "• Students’ Union (President) ",
                "• Graduate Students’ Association (President) ",
                "• Human Resource Services (OHE, Faculty Relations) ",
                "• Student Accessibility Services and Student Success Centre ",
                "• UAPS (Director) ",
                "• Sexual Assault Centre (Director) ",
                "• General Counsel (Senior Counsel) ",
                "• AASUA ",
                "• NASA ",
                "• Vice-Provosts’ Council (Oct. 17) ",
                "• President’s Executive Committee – Operations (Oct. 27) ",
                "Those who are actively participating: ",
                "• Office of Safe Disclosure and Human Rights (Senior Advisor) "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "GFC Academic Planning Committee – December 14, 2016",
                "GFC Executive Committee – January 16, 2017",
                "General Faculties Council – January 30, 2017",
                "Board Human Resources and Compensation Committee – Feb 28, 2017",
                "Board Safety, Health and Environment Committee – March 1, 2017",
                "Board of Governors – March 17, 2017"
            ],
            "Final Approver": " Board of Governors"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "9",
            "Agenda Title": "Proposed Changes to the Helping Individuals at Risk (HIAR) Policy and Procedure ",
            "Motion": " THAT General Faculties Council, as recommended by the GFC Academic Planning Committee, recommend that the Board of Governors approve the proposed revisions to the Helping Individuals at Risk (HIAR) Policy and Procedure as set forth in Attachments 1 and 2, to take effect upon final approval. ",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-01-30",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "Provost and Vice-President (Academic); Vice-President (Finance and Administration) ",
            "Presenter": " André Costopolous, Vice-Provost and Dean of Students and Wayne Patterson, Executive Director and Acting Associate Vice-President (Human Resources) ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic); Vice-President (Finance and Administration)  The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) The Helping Individuals at Risk (HIAR) Policy and Procedure (UAPPOL) was approved in 2010. The policy requires that a review of the suite be conducted after three years. Consultations on these changes began in 2013. The proposed changes remove many of the operational directives and details which were included when approved in 2010 which were intended to guide the program implementation. Friendly edits to names of support units and departments and to gendered language have also been made. The Impact of the Proposal is The revised policy and procedure have improved clarity and preserve the intent of the documents as approved in 2010. Replaces/Revises (eg, policies, resolutions) Helping Individuals at Risk Policy (approved March 26, 2010) Helping Individuals at Risk Procedure (approved March 26, 2010) Timeline/Implementation Date Upon final approval Estimated Cost and funding source N/A Next Steps (ie.: Communications Plan, Implementation plans) N/A Supplementary Notes and context A substantive change to include Academically At Risk as a criteria for assessing individuals at risk was included in early consultations. This change is not included in the final proposed changes. Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Those who have been informed: •  Those who have been consulted: • Dean’s Council, December 2013 • HR – Organizational Health and Effectiveness (Gerry McCune), February 2013 • Vice-Provost and Dean, Faculty of Graduate Studies and http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\n Student Participation Protocol> Research (Mazi Shirvani and Heather Zwicker), October 2014, February 2015  • HR Consulting Services (Dan Charlton) November, 2014 • Provost’s Advisory Committee of Chairs (PACC) , December, 2014 • AASUA, NASA Meeting, November 2014 • Students’ Union, Graduate Students’ Association Meeting, November 2014 • Vice-Provost (Learning Initiatives) (July, 2015) • Vice-Provost (Programs) (July, 2015) • Vice-Provost (Programs), January 11, 2016 • Information and Privacy Office (Diane Alguire), February 2, 2016 • PSO Policy Champs Working Group, February 2016 • Residence Services, September 28, 2016 • AASUA, March 2016 (no comments) • GFC Campus Law Review Committee – October 27, 2016 Those who are actively participating: • Vice-Provost and Dean of Students (Robin Everall and André Costopoulos) • Associate Vice-President (Internal Audit Services) (Mary Persson) • University General Counsel (Brad Hamdon) • Director, Helping individuals at Risk Program (Kris Fowler) Approval Route (Governance) (including meeting dates) GFC Academic Planning Committee – December 14, 2016 GFC Executive Committee – January 16, 2017 General Faculties Council – January 30, 2017 Board Safety, Health and Environment Committee – March 1, 2017 Board of Governors – March 17, 2017 Final Approver Board of Governors Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents For the Public Good GOAL: SUSTAIN  Our success as an institution will be determined by our support for our people… OBJECTIVE 19: Prioritize and sustain student, faculty, and staff health, wellness, and safety by delivering proactive, relevant, responsive, and accessible services and initiatives. Strategy i: Develop an integrated, institution-wide health and wellness strategy, which increases the reach and effectiveness of existing health and wellness resources, programs, and services, and promotes resilience and work-life balance. Strategy ii: Bolster resources for and increase access to mental health programs that provide support to students, faculty, and staff. Strategy iii: Endorse a strong culture of safety awareness, knowledge, planning, and practice to ensure the safety of students, employees, and visitors to our campuses. OBJECTIVE 21: Encourage continuous improvement in administrative, http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\n governance, planning, and stewardship systems, procedures, and policies that enable students, faculty, staff, and the institution as a whole to achieve shared strategic goals. Strategy ii: Ensure that individual and institutional annual review processes align with and support key institutional strategic goals. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): Alberta’s Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) gives the Board of Governors the authority to “develop, manage and operate, alone or in co-operation with any person or organization, programs, services and facilities for the educational or cultural advancement of the people of Alberta” (Section 60(1)). Further, the Board of Governors “must consider the recommendations of the general faculties council, if any, on matters of academic import prior to providing for […] any other activities the board considers necessary or advantageous.” (Section 19(c)) 2. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The PSLA gives GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs (Section 26(1)).  3. Campus Law Review Committee (CLRC) Terms of Reference “E. Other GFC Regulations  1. From time to time the Chair of GFC CLRC will bring forward to GFC CLRC items where the Office of the Provost and Vice-President (Academic), in consultation with other units or officers of the University, is seeking the advice of the committee. These matters may include, but are not limited to, rules and regulations, other than discipline codes.”  4.   GFC Academic Planning Committee  Terms of Reference (Mandate):   “The Academic Planning Committee (APC) is GFC's senior committee dealing with academic, financial and planning issues. […] [T]he President, Provost and Vice-President (Academic) or other Vice-\nPresidents may refer any matter to APC for consideration or recommendation to GFC. APC is also responsible to GFC for promoting an optimal learning environment for students and excellence in teaching, research, and graduate studies.” “APC is responsible for making recommendations to GFC and/or to the Board of Governors concerning policy matters and action matters with respect to the following: […] 15. Other  a. To recommend to the Board of Governors and/or GFC on any other matter deemed by APC to be within the purview of its general responsibility. 4. GFC Executive Committee Terms of Reference (3. Mandate)  “GFC has delegated to the Executive Committee the authority to decide which items are placed on a GFC Agenda, and the order in which those agenda items appear on each GFC agenda. […]  When recommendations are forwarded to General Faculties Council from APC, the role of the Executive shall be to decide the order in which  items should be considered by GFC. The Executive Committee is responsible for providing general advice to the Chair about proposals being forwarded from APC to GFC.” 5. General Faculties Council Terms of Reference (Mandate)  “The issues which remain with GFC or which would be referred by a Standing Committee to GFC would generally be in the nature of the following: • high level strategic and stewardship policy issues or matters of significant risk to the University”  6. Board Safety, Health and Environment Committee (BSHEC) Terms of Reference:  “3. Mandate of the Committee  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing the Committee shall:  a) provide oversight regarding the environmental health, safety and security of the University community:  (i) approve University policies and procedures relating to environmental health, safety, and security issues and compliance therewith;  b) provide oversight regarding student health and wellness initiatives and strategies on campus:  (i) review and approve University policies and procedures relating to student health and wellness issues; Attachments  1. Helping Individuals At Risk Policy (pages 1 - 2) 2. Helping Individuals At Risk Procedure (pages 1 - 3) ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "<For further information see ",
                "the link posted on the ",
                "Governance Toolkit section ",
                "Those who have been informed: ",
                "• ",
                "Those who have been consulted: ",
                "• Dean’s Council, December 2013 ",
                "• HR – Organizational Health and Effectiveness (Gerry McCune), ",
                "February 2013 ",
                "• Vice-Provost and Dean, Faculty of Graduate Studies and ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx ",
                " Student Participation Protocol> ",
                "Research (Mazi Shirvani and Heather Zwicker), October 2014, ",
                "February 2015 ",
                "• HR Consulting Services (Dan Charlton) November, 2014 ",
                "• Provost’s Advisory Committee of Chairs (PACC) , December, ",
                "2014 ",
                "• AASUA, NASA Meeting, November 2014 ",
                "• Students’ Union, Graduate Students’ Association Meeting, ",
                "November 2014 ",
                "• Vice-Provost (Learning Initiatives) (July, 2015) ",
                "• Vice-Provost (Programs) (July, 2015) ",
                "• Vice-Provost (Programs), January 11, 2016 ",
                "• Information and Privacy Office (Diane Alguire), February 2, 2016 ",
                "• PSO Policy Champs Working Group, February 2016 ",
                "• Residence Services, September 28, 2016 ",
                "• AASUA, March 2016 (no comments) ",
                "• GFC Campus Law Review Committee – October 27, 2016 ",
                "Those who are actively participating: ",
                "• Vice-Provost and Dean of Students (Robin Everall and André ",
                "Costopoulos) ",
                "• Associate Vice-President (Internal Audit Services) (Mary ",
                "Persson) ",
                "• University General Counsel (Brad Hamdon) ",
                "• Director, Helping individuals at Risk Program (Kris Fowler) "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "GFC Academic Planning Committee – December 14, 2016",
                "GFC Executive Committee – January 16, 2017",
                "General Faculties Council – January 30, 2017",
                "Board Safety, Health and Environment Committee – March 1, 2017",
                "Board of Governors – March 17, 2017"
            ],
            "Final Approver": " Board of Governors"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "11",
            "Agenda Title": "General Faculties Council Standing Committee Report Executive Committee",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-01-30",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "N/A",
            "Presenter": "N/A",
            "Description": "1. Since the last GFC meeting, the Executive Committee met on December 5, 2016, and January 16, 2017. 2. Actions Taken with Delegated Authority from GFC December 5, 2016 Approved  the addition of ENGG 404 from the Faculty of Engineering to the List of Courses with Consolidated Examinations January 16, 2017 Approved  the new course designator HADVC (History of Art, Design and Visual Culture), Faculty of Arts   Recommended  to GFC - Proposed Revisions to the Discrimination, Harassment and Duty to Accommodate Policy and Related Procedures Recommended  to GFC - Proposed Changes to the Helping Individuals at Risk (HIAR) Policy and Procedure Approved the GFC agenda for January 30, 2017 meeting Detailed motion and final document summary: http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/ExecutiveCommittee/ExecutiveMotionandFinalDocument\nSummary.aspx 3. Items that the Committee Discussed or Advised on  December 5, 2016 University of Alberta Museums Annual Report 2015-2016  Student Conduct and Accountability Annual Statistical Report 2015-2016  Annual Report of the Appeals and Compliance Officer 2015-2016  Sexual Violence Policy and Procedures January 16, 2017 GFC Ad Hoc Committee on Academic Governance Including Delegated Authority  Helping Individuals at Risk and Safe Disclosure and Human Rights Activity Reports 2015-2016  Waiver of Advertising Requirements: Report to General Faculties Council  For the Public Good: Final Performance Measures  Update on the Comprehensive Institutional Plan (CIP)  Bachelor of Arts Curriculum Renewal, Faculty of Arts Terms of reference and records of meetings for this committee can be found at: http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/ExecutiveCommittee.aspx ",
            "Participation": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "12",
            "Agenda Title": "General Faculties Council Standing Committee Report Academic Planning Committee",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-01-30",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "N/A",
            "Presenter": "N/A",
            "Description": "1. Since the last GFC meeting, the Academic Planning Committee met on December 14, 2016, and January 18, 2017. 2. Actions Taken with Delegated Authority from GFC November 16, 2016 Approved Changes to the Bachelor of Science in Dental Hygiene, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry  Approved Revisions to the Graduate Teaching and Learning Program, Faculty of Graduate Studies & Research  Recommended to the Board Finance and Property Committee - University of Alberta 2017-2018 General Tuition Fee Proposal  Recommended to the Board Finance and Property Committee - University of Alberta 2017-2018 International Tuition Fee Proposal December 14, 2016 Approved  Program Expansion to add an Honors program to Operations Management, Faculty of Business  Approved  the Name Change of the Major ‘Entrepreneurship and Family Enterprise’ to ‘Entrepreneurship and Innovation’, in the Bachelor of Commerce, Faculty of Business Approved the Name Change of the Major ‘Family Ecology' to ‘Family Science’, in the Bachelor of Science in Human Ecology, Faculty of Agriculture, Life and Environmental Science (ALES) Recommended to GFC - Revisions to the Discrimination, Harassment and Duty to Accommodate Policy and Related Procedures Recommended to GFC - Changes to the Helping Individuals at Risk (HIAR) Policy and Procedure Recommended  to the Board Learning and Discovery Committee - a new freestanding for-credit University Certificate in Teaching Students with Complex Communication Needs, Faculty of Education  January 18, 2017 Approved the New specialization in Human Resource Management to be added to existing diploma Program (Techniques d’administration des affaires) offered by the Centre collegial de l’Alberta at Faculté Saint-Jean Detailed motion and final document summary: http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/AcademicPlanningCommittee/APCMotion 3. Items the Committee Discussed or Advised on  http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/AcademicPlanningCommittee/APCMotion\nNovember 16, 2016 Sexual Violence Policy and Procedures  Update on the Budget December 14, 2016 Update on the Comprehensive Institutional Plan (CIP)  January 16, 2017 Annual Report on Undergraduate Enrolment   Annual Report on Graduate Enrolment   Update on the Budget Terms of reference and records of meeting for this committee can be found at: http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/AcademicPlanningCommittee.aspx ",
            "Participation": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "13",
            "Agenda Title": "General Faculties Council Standing Committee Report Academic Standing Committee",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-01-30",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "N/A",
            "Presenter": "N/A",
            "Description": "1. Since the last GFC meeting, the Academic Standing Committee met on December 15, 2016.  2. Actions Taken with Delegated Authority from GFC December 15, 2016 Approved  Office of the Registrar: Proposed Approval of Transfer Credit for December 2016 Approved  Faculty of Business: Proposed Changes to Existing Academic Standing Regulations Approved  Faculty of Native Studies: Proposed Changes to Existing Admission and Transfer Regulations Approved  Faculty of Native Studies: Proposed Changes to Application Deadlines, Certificate in Aboriginal Governance and Partnership Approved  Proposal for an Embedded Graduate Certificate in School Administration Leadership, Faculty of Graduate Studies and Research and Faculté Saint-Jean Approved  Proposed changes to Existing Admission Requirements, Master of Education and doctoral programs in the Department of Secondary Education, Faculty of Graduate Studies and Research  Approved  Proposed Changes to Existing Admission Requirements, Dental Hygiene Post Diploma Degree Completion Program, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry Approved  Proposed Changes to Academic Regulations, Dental Hygiene Diploma/BSc (Dental Hygiene Specialization) Program, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry (approved by 3-vote on December 22, 2016) Detailed motion and final document summary: http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/AcademicStandardsCommittee/ASCMotionandFinalDocume\nntSummary.aspx  Terms of reference and records of meeting for this committee can be found at: http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/AcademicStandardsCommittee.aspx ",
            "Participation": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "17A",
            "Agenda Title": "Annual Report on Undergraduate Enrolment 2016-17 ",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-01-30",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "Lisa Collins, Vice-Provost and University Registrar ",
            "Presenter": " Lisa Collins, Vice-Provost and University Registrar Melissa Padfield, Deputy Registrar ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) To discuss the 2016/17 annual report on undergraduate enrolment. Timeline/Implementation Date N/A Supplementary Notes and context Provides the institution with undergraduate enrolment information for awareness and to aid in future planning. Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> Those who have been informed: • GFC Exec - January 16, 2017\n• APC - January 18, 2017\n• PEC-O- January 27, 2017\n• GFC -  January 30, 2017\n• Statutory Dean’s Council- February 1, 2017\n• BLDC- February 27, 2017\n• Board of Governors – March 17, 2017\n• Chairs Council- TBA\nThose who have been consulted: • President and Vice Chancellor- Dr. David Turpin- January 6,\n2017 • Office of the President- (Catherine Swindlehurst)- January 6,\n2017 • Provost and Vice President Academic- Dr. Steven Dew- January\n6, 2017 • Office of the Provost (Dr. Wendy Rogers (Deputy Provost), Edith\nFinczak, Kathleen Brough)- Early Readers- January 6, 2017 • Strategic Analysis and Data Warehouse- Deborah Williams-\nJanuary 6, 2017 • Vice Provosts’ Council- January 16, 2017\n• Advisory Committee on Enrolment Management- January 27,\n2017 Those who are actively participating: • FGSR, for purposes of coordinating graduate and undergraduate\nannual enrolment reports\nAlignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding For the Public Good http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nDocuments BUILD GOAL: Build a diverse, inclusive community of exceptional students, faculty and staff from Alberta, Canada, and the world.    To begin, we will attract outstanding students… OBJECTIVE 1:  Build a diverse, inclusive community of exceptional undergraduate and graduate students from Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, and the world. SUSTAIN GOAL: Sustain our people, our work, and the environment by attracting and stewarding the resources we need to deliver excellence to the benefit of all Albertans. A commitment that extends to administration and governance… OBJECTIVE 21: Encourage continuous improvement in administrative, governance, planning and stewardship systems, procedures, and policies that enable students, faculty, staff, and the institution as a whole to achieve shared strategic goals. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The PSLA gives GFC\nresponsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs. Further, the PSLA gives the Board of Governors authority over certain admission requirements and rules respecting enrolment. The Board has delegated its authority over admissions requirements and rules respecting enrolment to GFC and the GFC ASC. (Sections 26(1), 60(1)(c) and (d)). 2. General Faculties Council (GFC) Terms of Reference (Mandate):\n“[…]  The issues which remain with GFC or which would be referred by a Standing Committee to GFC would generally be in the nature of the following:  • high level strategic and stewardship policy issues or matters of\nsignificant risk to the University; • alterations to the mandate, terms of reference, composition, or\nstructure of a Standing Committee[.] […]” GFC has powers under the PSLA to “make recommendations to the board with respect to affiliation with other institutions, academic planning, campus planning, a building program, the budget, the regulation of residences and dining halls, procedures in respect of appointments, promotions, salaries, tenure and dismissals, and any other matters considered by the general faculties council to be of interest to the university […][PSLA Section 26(1)(o)]” and to “determine standards and policies respective the admission of persons to the university as students[.][PSLA Section 26(1)(n)]”  3. GFC Executive Committee Terms of Reference (Mandate):\n“To act as the executive body of General Faculties Council and, in general, carry out the functions delegated to it by General Faculties Council. (GFC 08 SEP 1966) (GFC 12 FEB 1996) 4. GFC Executive Committee Terms of Reference:\n“Agendas of General Faculties Council\nGFC has delegated to the Executive Committee the authority to\ndecide which items are placed on a GFC Agenda, and the order in\nwhich those agenda items appear on each GFC agenda.\nWhen ordering items, the GFC Executive Committee will be mindful\nof any matters that are of particular concern to students during\nMarch and April so that the student leaders who bring those items\nforward are able to address these items at GFC before their terms\nend. (EXEC 06 NOV 2006)\nWhen recommendations are forwarded to General Faculties Council\nfrom APC, the role of the Executive shall be to decide the order in\nwhich items should be considered by GFC. The Executive\nCommittee is responsible for providing general advice to the Chair\nabout proposals being forwarded from APC to GFC. “\n5. Board Learning and Discovery Committee Terms of Reference\n(Mandate):  “Except as provided in paragraph 4 hereof and in the Board’s General Committee Terms of Reference, the Committee shall, in accordance with the Committee’s responsibilities with powers granted under the Post-Secondary Learning Act, monitor, evaluate, advise and make decisions on behalf of the Board with respect to matters concerning the teaching and research affairs of the University, including proposals coming from the administration and from General Faculties Council (the “GFC”), and shall consider future educational expectations and challenges to be faced by the University. The Committee shall also include any other matter delegated to the Committee by the Board.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing the Committee shall: a. receive and approve initiatives related to the overall academic\nmission and related plans and policies of the University; […] d. review and approve the establishment, modification and removal\nof enrolment quotas and annually review such quotas[.][…]” 6. GFC Academic Planning Committee Terms of Reference\n(Section 3 Mandate):  “APC is responsible for making recommendations to GFC and/or to the Board of Governors concerning policy matters and action matters with respect to the following: […] 3. Enrollment and Planning\na. To recommend to GFC on University-wise enrolment targets for\nundergraduate and graduate students.\nb. To recommend to GFC on enrollment management processes,\nincluding the establishment of new quotas for individual Faculties\nand programs.”\n[…]” Attachments (each to be numbered 1 - <>) 1.  1.    Attachment 1 (pages 1 – 34) - Annual Report on Undergraduate Enrolment 2016/17 ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "<For further information see ",
                "the link posted on ",
                "the Governance Toolkit section ",
                "Student Participation Protocol> ",
                "Those who have been informed: ",
                "• GFC Exec - January 16, 2017 ",
                "• APC - January 18, 2017 ",
                "• PEC-O- January 27, 2017 ",
                "• GFC -  January 30, 2017 ",
                "• Statutory Dean’s Council- February 1, 2017 ",
                "• BLDC- February 27, 2017 ",
                "• Board of Governors – March 17, 2017 ",
                "• Chairs Council- TBA ",
                "Those who have been consulted: ",
                "• President and Vice Chancellor- Dr. David Turpin- January 6, ",
                "2017 ",
                "• Office of the President- (Catherine Swindlehurst)- January 6, ",
                "2017 ",
                "• Provost and Vice President Academic- Dr. Steven Dew- January ",
                "6, 2017 ",
                "• Office of the Provost (Dr. Wendy Rogers (Deputy Provost), Edith ",
                "Finczak, Kathleen Brough)- Early Readers- January 6, 2017 ",
                "• Strategic Analysis and Data Warehouse- Deborah Williams- ",
                "January 6, 2017 ",
                "• Vice Provosts’ Council- January 16, 2017 ",
                "• Advisory Committee on Enrolment Management- January 27, ",
                "2017 ",
                "Those who are actively participating: ",
                "• FGSR, for purposes of coordinating graduate and undergraduate ",
                "annual enrolment reports ",
                "Alignment/Compliance ",
                "Alignment with Guiding For the Public Good ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx ",
                "Documents ",
                "BUILD ",
                "GOAL: Build a diverse, inclusive community of exceptional students, ",
                "faculty and staff from Alberta, Canada, and the world. ",
                "To begin, we will attract outstanding students… ",
                "OBJECTIVE 1: ",
                "Build a diverse, inclusive community of exceptional undergraduate and ",
                "graduate students from Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, and the world. ",
                "SUSTAIN ",
                "GOAL: Sustain our people, our work, and the environment by attracting ",
                "and stewarding the resources we need to deliver excellence to the ",
                "benefit of all Albertans. ",
                "A commitment that extends to administration and governance… ",
                "OBJECTIVE 21: ",
                "Encourage continuous improvement in administrative, governance, ",
                "planning and stewardship systems, procedures, and policies that enable ",
                "students, faculty, staff, and the institution as a whole to achieve shared ",
                "strategic goals. ",
                "Compliance with Legislation, ",
                "Policy and/or Procedure ",
                "Relevant to the Proposal ",
                "(please quote legislation and ",
                "include identifying section ",
                "numbers) ",
                "1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The PSLA gives GFC ",
                "responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over ",
                "academic affairs. Further, the PSLA gives the Board of Governors ",
                "authority over certain admission requirements and rules respecting ",
                "enrolment. The Board has delegated its authority over admissions ",
                "requirements and rules respecting enrolment to GFC and the GFC ASC. ",
                "(Sections 26(1), 60(1)(c) and (d)). ",
                "2. General Faculties Council (GFC) Terms of Reference (Mandate): ",
                "“[…]  The issues which remain with GFC or which would be referred by a ",
                "Standing Committee to GFC would generally be in the nature of the ",
                "following: ",
                "• high level strategic and stewardship policy issues or matters of ",
                "significant risk to the University; ",
                "• alterations to the mandate, terms of reference, composition, or ",
                "structure of a Standing Committee[.] […]” ",
                "GFC has powers under the PSLA to ",
                "“make recommendations to the board with respect to affiliation with other ",
                "institutions, academic planning, campus planning, a building program, ",
                "the budget, the regulation of residences and dining halls, procedures in ",
                "respect of appointments, promotions, salaries, tenure and dismissals, ",
                "and any other matters considered by the general faculties council to be ",
                "of interest to the university […][PSLA Section 26(1)(o)]” and to ",
                "“determine standards and policies respective the admission of persons ",
                "to the university as students[.][PSLA Section 26(1)(n)]” ",
                "3. GFC Executive Committee Terms of Reference (Mandate): ",
                "“To act as the executive body of General Faculties Council and, in ",
                "general, carry out the functions delegated to it by General Faculties ",
                "Council. (GFC 08 SEP 1966) (GFC 12 FEB 1996) ",
                "4. GFC Executive Committee Terms of Reference: ",
                "“Agendas of General Faculties Council ",
                "GFC has delegated to the Executive Committee the authority to ",
                "decide which items are placed on a GFC Agenda, and the order in ",
                "which those agenda items appear on each GFC agenda. ",
                "When ordering items, the GFC Executive Committee will be mindful ",
                "of any matters that are of particular concern to students during ",
                "March and April so that the student leaders who bring those items ",
                "forward are able to address these items at GFC before their terms ",
                "end. (EXEC 06 NOV 2006) ",
                "When recommendations are forwarded to General Faculties Council ",
                "from APC, the role of the Executive shall be to decide the order in ",
                "which items should be considered by GFC. The Executive ",
                "Committee is responsible for providing general advice to the Chair ",
                "about proposals being forwarded from APC to GFC. “ ",
                "5. Board Learning and Discovery Committee Terms of Reference ",
                "(Mandate):  “Except as provided in paragraph 4 hereof and in the ",
                "Board’s General Committee Terms of Reference, the Committee shall, in ",
                "accordance with the Committee’s responsibilities with powers granted ",
                "under the Post-Secondary Learning Act, monitor, evaluate, advise and ",
                "make decisions on behalf of the Board with respect to matters ",
                "concerning the teaching and research affairs of the University, including ",
                "proposals coming from the administration and from General Faculties ",
                "Council (the “GFC”), and shall consider future educational expectations ",
                "and challenges to be faced by the University. The Committee shall also ",
                "include any other matter delegated to the Committee by the Board. ",
                "Without limiting the generality of the foregoing the Committee shall: ",
                "a. receive and approve initiatives related to the overall academic ",
                "mission and related plans and policies of the University; […] ",
                "d. review and approve the establishment, modification and removal ",
                "of enrolment quotas and annually review such quotas[.][…]” ",
                "6. GFC Academic Planning Committee Terms of Reference ",
                "(Section 3 Mandate):  “APC is responsible for making recommendations ",
                "to GFC and/or to the Board of Governors concerning policy matters and ",
                "action matters with respect to the following: […] ",
                "3. Enrollment and Planning ",
                "a. To recommend to GFC on University-wise enrolment targets for ",
                "undergraduate and graduate students. ",
                "b. To recommend to GFC on enrollment management processes, ",
                "including the establishment of new quotas for individual Faculties ",
                "and programs.” ",
                "[…]” ",
                "Attachments (each to be numbered 1 - <>) ",
                "1.  1.    Attachment 1 (pages 1 – 34) - Annual Report on Undergraduate Enrolment 2016/17 "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "17B",
            "Agenda Title": "Annual Report on Graduate Enrolment 2016/17 ",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-01-30",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "Heather Zwicker, Interim Vice-Provost and Dean, FGSR ",
            "Presenter": " Heather Zwicker, Interim Vice-Provost and Dean, FGSR ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) To discuss the 2016/17 report on graduate enrolment. Provides the institution with graduate enrolment information for awareness and to aid in future planning. Timeline/Implementation Date N/A Supplementary Notes and context Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> GFC Executive Committee – January 16, 2017 (for information) Faculty of Graduate Studies & Research Council – January 18,  2017 Vice Provosts Council – January 16, 2017 Academic Planning Committee - January 18, 2017 President’s Executive Committee - Operations – January 26, 2017 General Faculties Council – January 30, 2017 (for information) Deans’ Council – February 1, 2017 Board Learning and Discovery Committee – February 27, 2017 Board of Governors – March 17, 2017 (for information) President’s Advisory Committee of Chairs – March 21, 2017 Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents Institutional Strategic Plan - For the Public Good, and Comprehensive Institutional Plan Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The PSLA gives GFC\nresponsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs. Further, the PSLA gives the Board of Governors authority over certain admission requirements and rules respecting enrolment. The Board has delegated its authority over admissions requirements and rules respecting enrolment to GFC and the GFC ASC. (Sections 26(1), 60(1)(c) and (d)). 2. General Faculties Council Terms of Reference (Mandate):\n “[…]  The issues which remain with GFC or which would be referred by a Standing Committee to GFC would generally be in the nature of the following:  • high level strategic and stewardship policy issues or matters of\nsignificant risk to the University;[…]” GFC has powers under the PSLA to  “make recommendations to the board with respect to affiliation with other institutions, academic planning, campus planning, a building program, the budget, the regulation of residences and dining halls, procedures in http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nrespect of appointments, promotions, salaries, tenure and dismissals, and any other matters considered by the general faculties council to be of interest to the university […][PSLA Section 26(1)(o)]” and to “determine standards and policies respective the admission of persons to the university as students[.][PSLA Section 26(1)(n)]”  3. GFC Executive Committee Terms of Reference\n“Agendas of General Faculties Council  GFC has delegated to the Executive Committee the authority to decide which items are placed on a GFC Agenda, and the order in which those agenda items appear on each GFC agenda.  When ordering items, the GFC Executive Committee will be mindful of any matters that are of particular concern to students during March and April so that the student leaders who bring those items forward are able to address these items at GFC before their terms end. (EXEC 06 NOV 2006) When recommendations are forwarded to General Faculties Council from APC, the role of the Executive shall be to decide the order in which items should be considered by GFC. The Executive Committee is responsible for providing general advice to the Chair about proposals being forwarded from APC to GFC. ” 4. GFC Academic Planning Committee Terms of Reference\n(Mandate):   “APC is responsible for making recommendations to GFC and/or to the Board of Governors concerning policy matters and action matters with respect to the following: […] 3. Enrollment and Planning\na. To recommend to GFC on University-wise enrolment targets for\nundergraduate and graduate students. b. To recommend to GFC on enrollment management processes,\nincluding the establishment of new quotas for individual Faculties and programs. […]” 5. Board Learning and Discovery Committee Terms of Reference\n(Mandate):   “Except as provided in paragraph 4 hereof and in the Board’s General Committee Terms of Reference, the Committee shall, in accordance with the Committee’s responsibilities with powers granted under the Post-\nSecondary Learning Act, monitor, evaluate, advise and make decisions on behalf of the Board with respect to matters concerning the teaching and research affairs of the University, including proposals coming from the administration and from General Faculties Council (the “GFC”), and shall consider future educational expectations and challenges to be faced by the University. The Committee shall also include any other matter delegated to the Committee by the Board.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing the Committee shall:  a. receive and approve initiatives related to the overall academic\nmission and related plans and policies of the University; […] d. review and approve the establishment, modification and removal  of\nenrolment quotas and annually review such quotas[.][…]” Attachments: 1. Attachment 1: Annual Report on Graduate Enrolment 2016/17\n",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "<For further information see ",
                "the link posted on ",
                "the Governance Toolkit section ",
                "Student Participation Protocol> ",
                "GFC Executive Committee – January 16, 2017 (for information) ",
                "Faculty of Graduate Studies & Research Council – January 18,  2017 ",
                "Vice Provosts Council – January 16, 2017 ",
                "Academic Planning Committee - January 18, 2017 ",
                "President’s Executive Committee - Operations – January 26, 2017 ",
                "General Faculties Council – January 30, 2017 (for information) ",
                "Deans’ Council – February 1, 2017 ",
                "Board Learning and Discovery Committee – February 27, 2017 ",
                "Board of Governors – March 17, 2017 (for information) ",
                "President’s Advisory Committee of Chairs – March 21, 2017 ",
                "Alignment/Compliance ",
                "Alignment with Guiding ",
                "Documents ",
                "Institutional Strategic Plan - For the Public Good, and Comprehensive ",
                "Institutional Plan ",
                "Compliance with Legislation, ",
                "Policy and/or Procedure ",
                "Relevant to the Proposal ",
                "(please quote legislation and ",
                "include identifying section ",
                "numbers) ",
                "1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The PSLA gives GFC ",
                "responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over ",
                "academic affairs. Further, the PSLA gives the Board of Governors ",
                "authority over certain admission requirements and rules respecting ",
                "enrolment. The Board has delegated its authority over admissions ",
                "requirements and rules respecting enrolment to GFC and the GFC ASC. ",
                "(Sections 26(1), 60(1)(c) and (d)). ",
                "2. General Faculties Council Terms of Reference (Mandate): ",
                " “[…]  The issues which remain with GFC or which would be referred by ",
                "a Standing Committee to GFC would generally be in the nature of the ",
                "following: ",
                "• high level strategic and stewardship policy issues or matters of ",
                "significant risk to the University;[…]” ",
                "GFC has powers under the PSLA to ",
                "“make recommendations to the board with respect to affiliation with other ",
                "institutions, academic planning, campus planning, a building program, ",
                "the budget, the regulation of residences and dining halls, procedures in ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx ",
                "respect of appointments, promotions, salaries, tenure and dismissals, ",
                "and any other matters considered by the general faculties council to be ",
                "of interest to the university […][PSLA Section 26(1)(o)]” and to ",
                "“determine standards and policies respective the admission of persons ",
                "to the university as students[.][PSLA Section 26(1)(n)]” ",
                "3. GFC Executive Committee Terms of Reference ",
                "“Agendas of General Faculties Council ",
                "GFC has delegated to the Executive Committee the authority to decide ",
                "which items are placed on a GFC Agenda, and the order in which those ",
                "agenda items appear on each GFC agenda. ",
                "When ordering items, the GFC Executive Committee will be mindful of ",
                "any matters that are of particular concern to students during March and ",
                "April so that the student leaders who bring those items forward are able ",
                "to address these items at GFC before their terms end. (EXEC 06 NOV ",
                "2006) ",
                "When recommendations are forwarded to General Faculties Council ",
                "from APC, the role of the Executive shall be to decide the order in which ",
                "items should be considered by GFC. The Executive Committee is ",
                "responsible for providing general advice to the Chair about proposals ",
                "being forwarded from APC to GFC. ” ",
                "4. GFC Academic Planning Committee Terms of Reference ",
                "(Mandate): ",
                "“APC is responsible for making recommendations to GFC and/or to the ",
                "Board of Governors concerning policy matters and action matters with ",
                "respect to the following: […] ",
                "3. Enrollment and Planning ",
                "a. To recommend to GFC on University-wise enrolment targets for ",
                "undergraduate and graduate students. ",
                "b. To recommend to GFC on enrollment management processes, ",
                "including the establishment of new quotas for individual Faculties and ",
                "programs. […]” ",
                "5. Board Learning and Discovery Committee Terms of Reference ",
                "(Mandate): ",
                "“Except as provided in paragraph 4 hereof and in the Board’s General ",
                "Committee Terms of Reference, the Committee shall, in accordance with ",
                "the Committee’s responsibilities with powers granted under the Post- ",
                "Secondary Learning Act, monitor, evaluate, advise and make decisions ",
                "on behalf of the Board with respect to matters concerning the teaching ",
                "and research affairs of the University, including proposals coming from ",
                "the administration and from General Faculties Council (the “GFC”), and ",
                "shall consider future educational expectations and challenges to be ",
                "faced by the University. The Committee shall also include any other ",
                "matter delegated to the Committee by the Board. ",
                "Without limiting the generality of the foregoing the Committee shall: ",
                "a. receive and approve initiatives related to the overall academic ",
                "mission and related plans and policies of the University; […] ",
                "d. review and approve the establishment, modification and removal  of ",
                "enrolment quotas and annually review such quotas[.][…]” ",
                "Attachments: ",
                "1. Attachment 1: Annual Report on Graduate Enrolment 2016/17 "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "17C",
            "Agenda Title": "University of Alberta Museums Annual Report for the Period   July 1, 2015 – September  30, 2016 ",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-01-30",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "Janine Andrews, Executive Director, Museums and Collections Services, and Jocelyn Hall, Chair, University of Alberta Museums Policy and Planning Committee (Associate Professor and Associate Chair [Undergraduate], Department of Biological Sciences) ",
            "Presenter": " Janine Andrews, Executive Director, Museums and Collections Services, and Jocelyn Hall, Chair, University of Alberta Museums Policy and Planning Committee (Associate Professor and Associate Chair [Undergraduate], Department of Biological Sciences) ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) To file an annual report, as requested, with General Faculties Council.  Timeline/Implementation Date This Annual Report covers a reporting period of July 1, 2015 – September 30, 2016 Supplementary Notes and context N/A Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> Those who have been informed: • Acting Vice-Provost (Learning Services) (as non-voting member\nof the Policy and Planning Committee)\nThose who have been consulted: • University of Alberta Museums Policy and Planning Committee\n(November 11-15, 2016) for review and approval via electronic\nvote.\nThose who are actively participating: • N/A\nAlignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents N/A Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): GFC has responsibility,\nsubject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs. (Section 26(1))  GFC has thus established policies governing University Museums Collections, as set out in University of Alberta Policies and Procedures On-Line (UAPPOL).  2. GFC Policy: The University of Alberta Museums Annual Report is\none of several reports from non-GFC committees/entities requested to provide an annual report to GFC.  3. GFC Terms of Reference (GFC Procedures (GFC Agendas)\n(Reports)):  “Reports not requiring action by GFC will be discussed by http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nthe Executive Committee (with committee chairs in attendance) and placed on the GFC agenda for information. If a GFC member has a question about a report, or feels that the report should be discussed by GFC, the GFC member should notify the Secretary to GFC, in writing, two business days or more before GFC meets so that the committee chair can be invited to attend. Such reports will be discussed as the last of the standing items.” (Section 4.a.) Annual reports are made available to GFC online (GFC, February 24, 2003, Minute 14). Attachments 1. University of Alberta Museums Annual Report 2015 - 2016 (page(s) 1 - 19)\n",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "<For further information see ",
                "the link posted on ",
                "the Governance Toolkit section ",
                "Student Participation Protocol> ",
                "Those who have been informed: ",
                "• Acting Vice-Provost (Learning Services) (as non-voting member ",
                "of the Policy and Planning Committee) ",
                "Those who have been consulted: ",
                "• University of Alberta Museums Policy and Planning Committee ",
                "(November 11-15, 2016) for review and approval via electronic ",
                "vote. ",
                "Those who are actively participating: ",
                "• N/A ",
                "Alignment/Compliance ",
                "Alignment with Guiding ",
                "Documents ",
                "N/A ",
                "Compliance with Legislation, ",
                "Policy and/or Procedure ",
                "Relevant to the Proposal ",
                "(please quote legislation and ",
                "include identifying section ",
                "numbers) ",
                "1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): GFC has responsibility, ",
                "subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs. ",
                "(Section 26(1))  GFC has thus established policies governing University ",
                "Museums Collections, as set out in University of Alberta Policies and ",
                "Procedures On-Line (UAPPOL). ",
                "2. GFC Policy: The University of Alberta Museums Annual Report is ",
                "one of several reports from non-GFC committees/entities requested to ",
                "provide an annual report to GFC. ",
                "3. GFC Terms of Reference (GFC Procedures (GFC Agendas) ",
                "(Reports)):  “Reports not requiring action by GFC will be discussed by ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx ",
                "the Executive Committee (with committee chairs in attendance) and ",
                "placed on the GFC agenda for information. If a GFC member has a ",
                "question about a report, or feels that the report should be discussed by ",
                "GFC, the GFC member should notify the Secretary to GFC, in writing, ",
                "two business days or more before GFC meets so that the committee ",
                "chair can be invited to attend. Such reports will be discussed as the last ",
                "of the standing items.” (Section 4.a.) ",
                "Annual reports are made available to GFC online (GFC, February 24, ",
                "2003, Minute 14). ",
                "Attachments ",
                "1. University of Alberta Museums Annual Report 2015 - 2016 (page(s) 1 - 19) "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "17D",
            "Agenda Title": "Student Conduct and Accountability Annual Statistical Report ",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-01-30",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "Deborah Eerkes, Director, SCA ",
            "Presenter": " Deborah Eerkes, Director, SCA ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) To provide the GFC Campus Law Review Committee (CLRC), the GFC Executive Committee, and the Board Learning and Discovery Committee (BLDC) with the annual statistics of Student Conduct and Accountability for the 2015-16 academic year. Timeline/Implementation Date N/A Supplementary Notes and context Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) Those who have been informed: • Michael Peterson, Appeals and Compliance Officer\n• GFC Campus Law Review Committee – November 24, 2016\n• GFC Executive Committee – December 5, 2016\n• General Faculties Council – January 30, 2016 (for information)\n• Board Learning and Discovery Committee – February 27, 2017\nThose who have been consulted: • Those who are actively participating: • Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents Institutional Strategic Plan - For the Public Good, Comprehensive Institutional Plan Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The Post-Secondary\nLearning Act (PSLA) gives GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs (Section 26(1)) and “general supervision of student affairs” (Section 31), including authority concerning “student discipline”.  2. GFC Campus Law Review Committee Terms of Reference:\n“5. Reporting Requirements Discipline Cases: […] The Appeals Coordinator on behalf of the Campus Law Review Committee will submit annually to GFC in the fall, statistical information on discipline cases […] As far as is practical, comparative information from the most recent reporting period will be included. 3. GFC Executive Committee Terms of Reference:\n“5. Agendas of General Faculties Council GFC has delegated to the Executive Committee the authority to decide which items are placed on a GFC Agenda, and the order in which those agenda items appear on each GFC agenda.” 4. General Faculties Council Terms of Reference:\n“4a. Reports not requiring action by GFC will be discussed by the Executive Committee (with committee chairs in attendance) and placed on the GFC agenda for information. If a GFC member has a question about a report, or feels that the report should be discussed by GFC, the GFC member should notify the Secretary to GFC, in writing, two business days or more before GFC meets so that the committee chair can be invited to attend. Such reports will be discussed as the last of the standing items.”  5. Board Learning and Discovery Committee (BLDC) Terms of\nReference/Mandate of the Committee (Section 3): “Except as provided in paragraph 4 hereof and in the Board’s General Committee Terms of Reference, the Committee shall, in accordance with the Committee’s responsibilities with powers granted under the Post-\nSecondary Learning Act, monitor, evaluate, advise and make decisions on behalf of the Board with respect to matters concerning the teaching and research affairs of the University, including proposals coming from the administration and from General Faculties Council (the “GFC”), and shall consider future educational expectations and challenges to be faced by the University. The Committee shall also include any other matter delegated to the Committee by the Board.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing the Committee shall: […] e. review and approve the Code of Student Behaviour, the Code of\nApplicant Behaviour and the Practicum Intervention Policy; […] g. undertake studies and review academic matters that pertain to the\nquality of the educational experience at the University; h. monitor educational and research trends, community expectations\nand demands; […]  j. ensure that the academic teaching and research activities at the\nUniversity are administered and undertaken in a manner consistent with the vision and mission of the University;  k. consider future educational expectations and challenges to be faced\nby the University […]” Attachments 1. Student Conduct and Accountability Statistical Report 2015/16 Academic year (pages 1 - 8)\n",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "Those who have been informed: ",
                "• Michael Peterson, Appeals and Compliance Officer ",
                "• GFC Campus Law Review Committee – November 24, 2016 ",
                "• GFC Executive Committee – December 5, 2016 ",
                "• General Faculties Council – January 30, 2016 (for information) ",
                "• Board Learning and Discovery Committee – February 27, 2017 ",
                "Those who have been consulted: ",
                "• ",
                "Those who are actively participating: ",
                "• ",
                "Alignment/Compliance ",
                "Alignment with Guiding ",
                "Documents ",
                "Institutional Strategic Plan - For the Public Good, Comprehensive ",
                "Institutional Plan ",
                "Compliance with Legislation, ",
                "Policy and/or Procedure ",
                "Relevant to the Proposal ",
                "(please quote legislation and ",
                "include identifying section ",
                "numbers) ",
                "1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The Post-Secondary ",
                "Learning Act (PSLA) gives GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of ",
                "the Board of Governors, over academic affairs (Section 26(1)) and ",
                "“general supervision of student affairs” (Section 31), including authority ",
                "concerning “student discipline”. ",
                "2. GFC Campus Law Review Committee Terms of Reference: ",
                "“5. Reporting Requirements ",
                "Discipline Cases: […] ",
                "The Appeals Coordinator on behalf of the Campus Law Review ",
                "Committee will submit annually to GFC in the fall, statistical information ",
                "on discipline cases […] As far as is practical, comparative information ",
                "from the most recent reporting period will be included. ",
                "3. GFC Executive Committee Terms of Reference: ",
                "“5. Agendas of General Faculties Council ",
                "GFC has delegated to the Executive Committee the authority to decide ",
                "which items are placed on a GFC Agenda, and the order in which those ",
                "agenda items appear on each GFC agenda.” ",
                "4. General Faculties Council Terms of Reference: ",
                "“4a. Reports not requiring action by GFC will be discussed by the ",
                "Executive Committee (with committee chairs in attendance) and placed ",
                "on the GFC agenda for information. If a GFC member has a question ",
                "about a report, or feels that the report should be discussed by GFC, the ",
                "GFC member should notify the Secretary to GFC, in writing, two ",
                "business days or more before GFC meets so that the committee chair ",
                "can be invited to attend. Such reports will be discussed as the last of the ",
                "standing items.” ",
                "5. Board Learning and Discovery Committee (BLDC) Terms of ",
                "Reference/Mandate of the Committee (Section 3): “Except as ",
                "provided in paragraph 4 hereof and in the Board’s General Committee ",
                "Terms of Reference, the Committee shall, in accordance with the ",
                "Committee’s responsibilities with powers granted under the Post- ",
                "Secondary Learning Act, monitor, evaluate, advise and make decisions ",
                "on behalf of the Board with respect to matters concerning the teaching ",
                "and research affairs of the University, including proposals coming from ",
                "the administration and from General Faculties Council (the “GFC”), and ",
                "shall consider future educational expectations and challenges to be ",
                "faced by the University. The Committee shall also include any other ",
                "matter delegated to the Committee by the Board. ",
                "Without limiting the generality of the foregoing the Committee shall: […] ",
                "e. review and approve the Code of Student Behaviour, the Code of ",
                "Applicant Behaviour and the Practicum Intervention Policy; ",
                "[…] ",
                "g. undertake studies and review academic matters that pertain to the ",
                "quality of the educational experience at the University; ",
                "h. monitor educational and research trends, community expectations ",
                "and demands; ",
                "[…] ",
                "j. ensure that the academic teaching and research activities at the ",
                "University are administered and undertaken in a manner consistent ",
                "with the vision and mission of the University; ",
                "k. consider future educational expectations and challenges to be faced ",
                "by the University […]” ",
                "Attachments ",
                "1. Student Conduct and Accountability Statistical Report 2015/16 Academic year (pages 1 - 8) "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "17E",
            "Agenda Title": "Annual Report of the Appeals and Compliance Officer (2015-2016) ",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-01-30",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "Michael Peterson, Appeals and Compliance Officer, University Governance ",
            "Presenter": " Michael Peterson, Appeals and Compliance Officer, University Governance ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) To provide Committee members with the annual report of statistical information on discipline cases, as required by GFC policy. Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) • GFC Campus Law Review Committee, November 24, 2016 (for\ndiscussion);\n• GFC Executive Committee, January 16, 2017 (for discussion);\n• General Faculties Council, January 30, 2017 (for information);\n• Board Learning and Discovery Committee, February 27, 2017\n(for discussion)\nAlignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents For the Public Good GOAL:  Sustain our people, our work, and the environment by attracting and stewarding the resources we need to deliver excellence to the benefit of all. OBJECTIVE 21: Encourage continuous improvement in administrative, governance, planning, and stewardship systems, procedures, and policies that enable students, faculty, staff, and the institution as a whole to achieve shared strategic goals.  Strategy i: Encourage transparency and improve communication across the university through clear consultation and decision-making processes, substantive and timely communication of information, and access to shared, reliable institutional data. Strategy ii: Ensure that individual and institutional annual review processes align with and support key institutional strategic goals. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA):  The Post-Secondary\nLearning Act (PSLA) gives GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs (Section 26(1)) and over student affairs (Section 31), including authority concerning student discipline. 2. GFC CLRC Terms of Reference\n(5. Reporting Requirements):  “Discipline Cases: University Governance has been asked by the GFC Executive to attempt to have all appeal Boards (UAB, GFC AAC and GFC PRB) report to GFC at the same meeting, through the GFC Campus Law Review Committee (CLRC). The Appeals Coordinator on behalf of the Campus Law Review Committee will submit annually to GFC in the fall, statistical information on discipline cases dealt with by Faculties, the Discipline Officer, the Registrar, Unit Directors, the University Appeal Board and the GFC Practice Review Board. The discipline reports will include the year of the student, the offence with which they were charged and the outcome, but not any personally identifying information. When reporting statistics for applicants, the offence with which the applicant is charged and the outcome, but not any personally identifying information, will be provided. As far as is practical, comparative information from the most recent reporting period will be included.” 3. GFC Executive Terms of Reference\n(3. Mandate of the Committee):\n“To act as the executive body of General Faculties Council and, in general, carry out the functions delegated to it by General Faculties Council.” 4. GFC Terms of Reference\n(4. GFC Procedures/GFC Agendas/ a. Reports):\n“Reports not requiring action by GFC will be discussed by the Executive Committee (with committee chairs in attendance) and placed on the GFC agenda for information. If a GFC member has a question about a report, or feels that the report should be discussed by GFC, the GFC member should notify the Secretary to GFC, in writing, two business days or more before GFC meets so that the committee chair can be invited to attend. Such reports will be discussed as the last of the standing items.” 5. Board Learning and Discovery Committee (BLDC) Terms of\nReference/Mandate of the Committee\n(Section 3):\n“Except as provided in paragraph 4 hereof and in the Board’s General Committee Terms of Reference, the Committee shall, in accordance with the Committee’s responsibilities with powers granted under the Post-\nSecondary Learning Act, monitor, evaluate, advise and make decisions on behalf of the Board with respect to matters concerning the teaching and research affairs of the University, including proposals coming from the administration and from General Faculties Council (the “GFC”), and shall consider future educational expectations and challenges to be faced by the University. The Committee shall also include any other matter delegated to the Committee by the Board.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing the Committee shall: […]  e. review and approve the Code of Student Behaviour, the Code of\nApplicant Behaviour and the Practicum Intervention Policy; […] g. undertake studies and review academic matters that pertain to the\nquality of the educational experience at the University; h. monitor educational and research trends, community expectations\nand demands; […]  j. ensure that the academic teaching and research activities at the\nUniversity are administered and undertaken in a manner consistent with the vision and mission of the University;  k. consider future educational expectations and challenges to be\nfaced by the University[.] […]” Attachments 1. Annual Report of the Appeals and Compliance Officer (2015-2016) (4 pages)\n2. Index of Attachments (10 pages)\n",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "• GFC Campus Law Review Committee, November 24, 2016 (for ",
                "discussion); ",
                "• GFC Executive Committee, January 16, 2017 (for discussion); ",
                "• General Faculties Council, January 30, 2017 (for information); ",
                "• Board Learning and Discovery Committee, February 27, 2017 ",
                "(for discussion) ",
                "Alignment/Compliance ",
                "Alignment with Guiding ",
                "Documents ",
                "For the Public Good ",
                "GOAL:  Sustain our people, our work, and the environment by attracting ",
                "and stewarding the resources we need to deliver excellence to the ",
                "benefit of all. ",
                "OBJECTIVE 21: Encourage continuous improvement in administrative, ",
                "governance, planning, and stewardship systems, procedures, and ",
                "policies that enable students, faculty, staff, and the institution as a whole ",
                "to achieve shared strategic goals. ",
                "Strategy i: Encourage transparency and improve communication across ",
                "the university through clear consultation and decision-making processes, ",
                "substantive and timely communication of information, and access to ",
                "shared, reliable institutional data. ",
                "Strategy ii: Ensure that individual and institutional annual review ",
                "processes align with and support key institutional strategic goals. ",
                "Compliance with Legislation, ",
                "Policy and/or Procedure ",
                "Relevant to the Proposal ",
                "(please quote legislation and ",
                "include identifying section ",
                "numbers) ",
                "1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA):  The Post-Secondary ",
                "Learning Act (PSLA) gives GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of ",
                "the Board of Governors, over academic affairs (Section 26(1)) and over ",
                "student affairs (Section 31), including authority concerning student ",
                "discipline. ",
                "2. GFC CLRC Terms of Reference ",
                "(5. Reporting Requirements): ",
                "“Discipline Cases: University Governance has been asked by the GFC ",
                "Executive to attempt to have all appeal Boards (UAB, GFC AAC and ",
                "GFC PRB) report to GFC at the same meeting, through the GFC ",
                "Campus Law Review Committee (CLRC). ",
                "The Appeals Coordinator on behalf of the Campus Law Review ",
                "Committee will submit annually to GFC in the fall, statistical information ",
                "on discipline cases dealt with by Faculties, the Discipline Officer, the ",
                "Registrar, Unit Directors, the University Appeal Board and the GFC ",
                "Practice Review Board. The discipline reports will include the year of the ",
                "student, the offence with which they were charged and the outcome, but ",
                "not any personally identifying information. When reporting statistics for ",
                "applicants, the offence with which the applicant is charged and the ",
                "outcome, but not any personally identifying information, will be provided. ",
                "As far as is practical, comparative information from the most recent ",
                "reporting period will be included.” ",
                "3. GFC Executive Terms of Reference ",
                "(3. Mandate of the Committee): ",
                "“To act as the executive body of General Faculties Council and, in ",
                "general, carry out the functions delegated to it by General Faculties ",
                "Council.” ",
                "4. GFC Terms of Reference ",
                "(4. GFC Procedures/GFC Agendas/ a. Reports): ",
                "“Reports not requiring action by GFC will be discussed by the Executive ",
                "Committee (with committee chairs in attendance) and placed on the GFC ",
                "agenda for information. If a GFC member has a question about a report, ",
                "or feels that the report should be discussed by GFC, the GFC member ",
                "should notify the Secretary to GFC, in writing, two business days or more ",
                "before GFC meets so that the committee chair can be invited to attend. ",
                "Such reports will be discussed as the last of the standing items.” ",
                "5. Board Learning and Discovery Committee (BLDC) Terms of ",
                "Reference/Mandate of the Committee ",
                "(Section 3): ",
                "“Except as provided in paragraph 4 hereof and in the Board’s General ",
                "Committee Terms of Reference, the Committee shall, in accordance with ",
                "the Committee’s responsibilities with powers granted under the Post- ",
                "Secondary Learning Act, monitor, evaluate, advise and make decisions ",
                "on behalf of the Board with respect to matters concerning the teaching ",
                "and research affairs of the University, including proposals coming from ",
                "the administration and from General Faculties Council (the “GFC”), and ",
                "shall consider future educational expectations and challenges to be ",
                "faced by the University. The Committee shall also include any other ",
                "matter delegated to the Committee by the Board. ",
                "Without limiting the generality of the foregoing the Committee shall: […] ",
                "e. review and approve the Code of Student Behaviour, the Code of ",
                "Applicant Behaviour and the Practicum Intervention Policy; ",
                "[…] ",
                "g. undertake studies and review academic matters that pertain to the ",
                "quality of the educational experience at the University; ",
                "h. monitor educational and research trends, community expectations ",
                "and demands; ",
                "[…] ",
                "j. ensure that the academic teaching and research activities at the ",
                "University are administered and undertaken in a manner consistent ",
                "with the vision and mission of the University; ",
                "k. consider future educational expectations and challenges to be ",
                "faced by the University[.] […]” ",
                "Attachments ",
                "1. Annual Report of the Appeals and Compliance Officer (2015-2016) (4 pages) ",
                "2. Index of Attachments (10 pages) "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "17F",
            "Agenda Title": "Office of Safe Disclosure and Human Rights (OSDHR) Annual Report 2015-16 ",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-01-30",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "Gitta Kulczycki, Vice-President (Finance and Administration) ",
            "Presenter": " Mary Persson, Associate Vice-President (Audit and Analysis); Wade King, Senior Advisor (Safe Disclosure and Human Rights) ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) and Vice-President (Finance and Administration) The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) In 2008, the University introduced the Office of Safe Disclosure and Human Rights as an intake office for issues arising under the Ethical Conduct and Safe Disclosure Policy. Organizationally, the office reports to the University Auditor to promote the independent, neutral, and advisory nature of the function. In 2010, the Helping Individuals at Risk Policy (HIAR) was introduced and an intake function was created to work in conjunction with the Office of Safe Disclosure and Human Rights (SDHR). The policy requires that annual reporting to General Faculties Council (GFC) and to the Board of Governors will occur after each year of operation. The purpose of this report is to provide an overview of the activities of each office and to comment on trends and issues in these. Timeline/Implementation Date n/a Supplementary Notes and context Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> Those who have been informed: • Those who have been consulted: • Those who are actively participating: • Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents • Values – Above all, we value intellectual integrity, freedom of\ninquiry and expression, and the equality and dignity of all\npersons as the foundation of ethical conduct in research, teaching,\nlearning, and service.\nWe value diversity, inclusivity, and equity across and among our\npeople, campuses and disciplines.\n• Goal: Build a diverse, inclusive community of exceptional students,\nfaculty and staff from Alberta, Canada, and the world.\no Objective 1 – Build a diverse, inclusive community of\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nexceptional undergraduate and graduate students from Edmonton, Alberta, Canada and the world.   o Objective 2 –Create a faculty renewal program that builds on\nthe strengths of existing faculty and ensures the sustainable\ndevelopment of the University of Alberta’s talented, highly\nqualified, and diverse academy.\no Objective 3 – Support ongoing recruitment and retention of a\nhighly skilled, diverse community of non-academic and\nadministrative staff by enriching the University of Alberta’s\nworking environment.\no Objective 5 – Build and strengthen trust, connection, and a\nsense of belonging among all members of the university\ncommunity through a focus on shared values.\nCompliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): GFC has responsibility,\nsubject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs. (Section 26(1)) and student affairs (Section 31).  GFC has thus established policies governing helping individuals at risk, as set out in University of Alberta Policies and Procedures On-Line (UAPPOL).  2. GFC Policy: The Helping Individuals at Risk and Safe Disclosure and\nHuman Rights Annual Report is one of several reports from non-GFC committees/entities requested to provide an annual report to GFC.  3. GFC Terms of Reference (GFC Procedures/GFC Agendas/\nReports):  “Reports not requiring action by GFC will be discussed by the Executive Committee (with committee chairs in attendance) and placed on the GFC agenda for information. If a GFC member has a question about a report, or feels that the report should be discussed by GFC, the GFC member should notify the Secretary to GFC, in writing, two business days or more before GFC meets so that the committee chair can be invited to attend. Such reports will be discussed as the last of the standing items.” (Section 4.a.) Annual reports are made available to GFC online. 4. BSHEC Terms of Reference:\nMandate of the Committee: “Except as provided in paragraph 4 hereof and in the Board’s General Committee Terms of Reference, the Committee shall monitor, evaluate, advise and make decisions on behalf of the Board with respect to all matters concerning environmental health and the protection of the health, safety and security of the University community and the general public at the University as well as University student health and wellness.” 5. Helping Individuals at Risk Policy (Section 9):  “The Case Team\nCoordinator will report annually to General Faculties Council and to the Board of Governors after each year of operation, subject to privacy concerns, with a formal review of the policy and procedure to occur after three years of operation.” Attachments 1. Attachment 1: Office of Safe Disclosure and Human Rights (OSDHR) Annual Report 2015-16\n",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "<For further information see ",
                "the link posted on ",
                "the Governance Toolkit section ",
                "Student Participation Protocol> ",
                "Those who have been informed: ",
                "• ",
                "Those who have been consulted: ",
                "• ",
                "Those who are actively participating: ",
                "• ",
                "Alignment/Compliance ",
                "Alignment with Guiding ",
                "Documents ",
                "• Values – Above all, we value intellectual integrity, freedom of ",
                "inquiry and expression, and the equality and dignity of all ",
                "persons as the foundation of ethical conduct in research, teaching, ",
                "learning, and service. ",
                "We value diversity, inclusivity, and equity across and among our ",
                "people, campuses and disciplines. ",
                "• Goal: Build a diverse, inclusive community of exceptional students, ",
                "faculty and staff from Alberta, Canada, and the world. ",
                "o Objective 1 – Build a diverse, inclusive community of ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx ",
                "exceptional undergraduate and graduate students from ",
                "Edmonton, Alberta, Canada and the world. ",
                "o Objective 2 –Create a faculty renewal program that builds on ",
                "the strengths of existing faculty and ensures the sustainable ",
                "development of the University of Alberta’s talented, highly ",
                "qualified, and diverse academy. ",
                "o Objective 3 – Support ongoing recruitment and retention of a ",
                "highly skilled, diverse community of non-academic and ",
                "administrative staff by enriching the University of Alberta’s ",
                "working environment. ",
                "o Objective 5 – Build and strengthen trust, connection, and a ",
                "sense of belonging among all members of the university ",
                "community through a focus on shared values. ",
                "Compliance with Legislation, ",
                "Policy and/or Procedure ",
                "Relevant to the Proposal ",
                "(please quote legislation and ",
                "include identifying section ",
                "numbers) ",
                "1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): GFC has responsibility, ",
                "subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs. ",
                "(Section 26(1)) and student affairs (Section 31).  GFC has thus ",
                "established policies governing helping individuals at risk, as set out in ",
                "University of Alberta Policies and Procedures On-Line (UAPPOL). ",
                "2. GFC Policy: The Helping Individuals at Risk and Safe Disclosure and ",
                "Human Rights Annual Report is one of several reports from non-GFC ",
                "committees/entities requested to provide an annual report to GFC. ",
                "3. GFC Terms of Reference (GFC Procedures/GFC Agendas/ ",
                "Reports):  “Reports not requiring action by GFC will be discussed by the ",
                "Executive Committee (with committee chairs in attendance) and placed ",
                "on the GFC agenda for information. If a GFC member has a question ",
                "about a report, or feels that the report should be discussed by GFC, the ",
                "GFC member should notify the Secretary to GFC, in writing, two ",
                "business days or more before GFC meets so that the committee chair ",
                "can be invited to attend. Such reports will be discussed as the last of the ",
                "standing items.” (Section 4.a.) ",
                "Annual reports are made available to GFC online. ",
                "4. BSHEC Terms of Reference: ",
                "Mandate of the Committee: ",
                "“Except as provided in paragraph 4 hereof and in the Board’s General ",
                "Committee Terms of Reference, the Committee shall monitor, evaluate, ",
                "advise and make decisions on behalf of the Board with respect to all ",
                "matters concerning environmental health and the protection of the ",
                "health, safety and security of the University community and the general ",
                "public at the University as well as University student health and ",
                "wellness.” ",
                "5. Helping Individuals at Risk Policy (Section 9):  “The Case Team ",
                "Coordinator will report annually to General Faculties Council and to the ",
                "Board of Governors after each year of operation, subject to privacy ",
                "concerns, with a formal review of the policy and procedure to occur after ",
                "three years of operation.” ",
                "Attachments ",
                "1. Attachment 1: Office of Safe Disclosure and Human Rights (OSDHR) Annual Report 2015-16 "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "17G",
            "Agenda Title": "Waiver of Advertising Requirements: Report to General Faculties Council ",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2017-01-30",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "Steven Dew, Provost and Vice-President (Academic) ",
            "Presenter": " Steven Dew, Provost and Vice-President (Academic) ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) To provide GFC with summary information regarding the number of waiver of advertising for full-time academic staff vacancies as required through UAPPOL policy.  Timeline/Implementation Date N/A Supplementary Notes and context Last report to GFC: October 5, 2015 Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> Those who have been informed: • AASUA\n• Steven Dew, Provost and Vice-President (Academic)\nThose who have been consulted: • Steven Dew, Provost and Vice-President (Academic)\nThose who are actively participating: • Steven Dew, Provost and Vice-President (Academic)\nAlignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents For the Public Good GOAL: SUSTAIN Objective 21: Encourage continuous improvement in administrative, governance, planning and stewardship systems, procedures, and policies that enable students, faculty, staff, and the institution as a whole to achieve shared strategic goals. Strategy i. Encourage transparency and improve communication across the university through clear consultation and decision-making processes, substantive and timely communication of information, and access to shared, reliable institutional data. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. The Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) governs the appointment,\npromotion and dismissal of academic staff: “A person shall not be appointed to, promoted to or dismissed from any position on the academic staff at a university except on the recommendation of the president made in accordance with procedures approved by the general faculties council.” (Section 22(2) of the PSLA) http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\n2. Academic Staff Posting and Advertising Procedure\n“Waivers and Exceptions to Posting 7. In exceptional circumstances, the posting requirements for continuing\nacademic positions may be waived with the prior approval of the Provost and Vice-President (Academic). The Provost and Vice-President (Academic) will advise the AASUA of the decision and report all waivers to the General Faculties Council annually.” Attachments 1. Interdepartmental Correspondence to Meg Brolley from Steven Dew (page 1)\n",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "<For further information see ",
                "the link posted on ",
                "the Governance Toolkit section ",
                "Student Participation Protocol> ",
                "Those who have been informed: ",
                "• AASUA ",
                "• Steven Dew, Provost and Vice-President (Academic) ",
                "Those who have been consulted: ",
                "• Steven Dew, Provost and Vice-President (Academic) ",
                "Those who are actively participating: ",
                "• Steven Dew, Provost and Vice-President (Academic) ",
                "Alignment/Compliance ",
                "Alignment with Guiding ",
                "Documents ",
                "For the Public Good ",
                "GOAL: SUSTAIN ",
                "Objective 21: Encourage continuous improvement in administrative, ",
                "governance, planning and stewardship systems, procedures, and ",
                "policies that enable students, faculty, staff, and the institution as a whole ",
                "to achieve shared strategic goals. ",
                "Strategy i. Encourage transparency and improve communication across ",
                "the university through clear consultation and decision-making processes, ",
                "substantive and timely communication of information, and access to ",
                "shared, reliable institutional data. ",
                "Compliance with Legislation, ",
                "Policy and/or Procedure ",
                "Relevant to the Proposal ",
                "(please quote legislation and ",
                "include identifying section ",
                "numbers) ",
                "1. The Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) governs the appointment, ",
                "promotion and dismissal of academic staff: “A person shall not be ",
                "appointed to, promoted to or dismissed from any position on the ",
                "academic staff at a university except on the recommendation of the ",
                "president made in accordance with procedures approved by the general ",
                "faculties council.” (Section 22(2) of the PSLA) ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx ",
                "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx ",
                "2. Academic Staff Posting and Advertising Procedure ",
                "“Waivers and Exceptions to Posting ",
                "7. In exceptional circumstances, the posting requirements for continuing ",
                "academic positions may be waived with the prior approval of the Provost ",
                "and Vice-President (Academic). The Provost and Vice-President ",
                "(Academic) will advise the AASUA of the decision and report all waivers ",
                "to the General Faculties Council annually.” ",
                "Attachments ",
                "1. Interdepartmental Correspondence to Meg Brolley from Steven Dew (page 1) "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        }
    ],
    "url": "/static/GFC/2017-01-30/Past-Meeting-Material.pdf"
}