{
    "Committee": "GFC",
    "Date": "Friday, April 21, 2017 \n",
    "Title": "GFC General Faculties Council - 2017-04-21",
    "Location": "Council Chamber",
    "Time": "2:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m.",
    "Attendees": [
        "David Turpin Chair, President and Vice-Chancellor",
        "Ahmad Al-Dabbagh Member, Graduate Student",
        "Chris Andersen Member, Dean, Native Studies (Interim), Statutory",
        "Susan Andrew Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Walter Dixon (Delegate) Member, Vice-President (Research), Statutory",
        "Marina Banister Member, Vice-President (Academic), Students’ Union",
        "Matthew Barnett Member, Board of Governors Representative, NASA Appointee",
        "Howard Bashaw Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Gerald Beasley Member, Vice-Provost and Chief Librarian",
        "Darcy Bemister Member, Graduate Student",
        "Allen Berger Member, Dean, Augustana, Statutory",
        "Jeff Birchall Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Hasan Birer Member, Undergraduate Student",
        "Stanford Blade Member, Dean, Agricultural, Life and Environmental Sciences, Statutory",
        "Michelle Borowitz Member, Graduate Student",
        "Sylvia Brown Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Heather Bruce Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Colin Champagne Member, Board of Governors Representative, Undergraduate Appointee to",
        "GFC",
        "Li-Kwong Cheah Member, Academic Staff (Administrative/Professional Officer)",
        "Lisa Collins Member, Vice-Provost and University Registrar, Statutory",
        "David Cooper Member, Board of Governors Representative and AASUA Appointee",
        "Lesley Cormack Member, Dean, Arts, Statutory",
        "Pamela Mayne Correia Member, Academic Staff (Faculty Service Officer)",
        "Benjamin Denga Member, Graduate Student",
        "Steven Dew Member, Provost and Vice-President (Academic), Statutory",
        "Ryan Dunch Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Francesca El Ghossein Member, Student Nominated by UG Council of Students, Statutory",
        "Duncan Elliott Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Shannon Erichsen Member, Non-Academic Staff",
        "John Evjen Member, Undergraduate Student",
        "Jason Carey (Delegate) Member, Dean, Engineering, Statutory",
        "Kyle Foster Member, Graduate Student",
        "Kim Frail Member, University Library Academic Staff",
        "Matthew Fung Member, Undergraduate Student",
        "Murray Gingras Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Trish Manns (Delegate) Member, Dean, Rehabilitation Medicine (Interim), Statutory",
        "Calvin Howard Member, Undergraduate Student",
        "Maryse Ndilu Kiese Member, Graduate Student",
        "Firouz Khodayari Member, Graduate Student",
        "GFC General Faculties Council 04/21/2017",
        "Page 2",
        "Jon Kolo Member, Undergraduate Student",
        "Gitta Kulczycki Member, Vice-President (Finance & Administration), Statutory",
        "Reed Larsen Member, Undergraduate Student",
        "Pierre Lemelin Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Mark Loewen Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Maria Mayan Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Pierre-Yves Mocquais Member, Dean, Faculté Saint-Jean & Executive Officer of Campus Saint-",
        "Jean, Statutory",
        "Greta Cummings (Delegate) Member, Dean, Nursing, Statutory",
        "Carla Peck Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Fahim Rahman Member, Board of Governors Representative, President, Students' Union",
        "Bahador Rashidi Member, Graduate Student",
        "Jeremy Richards Member, Board of Governors Representative, GFC Appointee",
        "Carolyn Sale Member, AASUA President",
        "Jonathan Schaeffer Member, Dean, Science,  Statutory",
        "Marc Secanell Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Carrie Smith-Prei Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Jorge Sousa Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Sarah Stahlke Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Andrew Steele Member, Undergraduate Student",
        "Lisa Stein Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Eleni Stroulia Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Bruce Sutherland Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Jacqui Tam Member, Vice-President (University Relations) (Interim), Statutory",
        "Amy Tse Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Benjamin Tucker Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Harley Vanselow Member, Undergraduate Student",
        "Dilini Vethanayagam Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Amanda Wakaruk Member, University Library Academic Staff",
        "Elizabeth Wallace Member, University Library Academic Staff",
        "Bonnie Watt Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Jonathan White Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Sheena Wilson Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Dorothy Woodman Member, Academic Staff, CAS:T Sessional Staff Representative",
        "Denise Young Member, St. Joseph's College Representative",
        "Heather Zwicker Member, Dean, Faculty of Graduate Studies and Research (Interim),",
        "Statutory",
        "Meg Brolley, GFC Secretary and Manager of GFC Services"
    ],
    "Items": [
        {
            "Item No.": "4",
            "Agenda Title": "Negotiated (Proposed) Changes to the Contract Academic Staff: Teaching (CAS:T) Agreement ",
            "Date": "2017-04-21",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "Steven Dew, Provost and Vice-President (Academic) ",
            "Presenter": " Steven Dew, Provost and Vice-President (Academic) Michelle Strong, Vice-Provost & Director, Faculty & Staff Relations Donna Herman, Special Advisor, Faculty & Staff Relations ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) An Agreement Review Committee comprised of members from Administration and the AASUA has been working together to review and revise the Contract Academic Staff: Teaching (CAS:T) Agreement.  The changes to the Agreement are presented in the attached side-by-side document.   The Impact of the Proposal is To aid in the recruitment and retention of Teaching Staff Replaces/Revises (eg, policies, resolutions) Amendments to the CAS:T Agreement and renaming to the Academic Teaching Staff Agreement Timeline/Implementation Date Amendments are effective July 1, 2017 Estimated Cost and funding source Cost neutral. Any related compensation matters would be dealt with at comprehensive bargaining. Next Steps (ie.: Communications Plan, Implementation plans) AASUA Town Hall Faculty and Staff Relations Information Sessions Supplementary Notes and context In April, 2014, the Board provided Administration with a mandate to develop an academic performance evaluation and career progression model which would demonstrate the University’s commitment to a teaching-intensive career path within the CAS:T Agreement. Furthermore, in order to address a key concern of the CAS:T constituency, the mandate provided the ability to establish greater position security, by adopting a “contingent” appointment option for CAS:T Agreement staff members, and a range of appointment options more in keeping with the work done and working conditions experienced by CAS:T staff. Administration ARC Members Donna Herman, Faculty & Staff Relations, Chair Charles Lucy, Professor in Chemistry Lise Warick, Human Resource Services Susan Buchsdruecker, Faculty & Staff Relations Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> Those who have been informed: • Agreement Review Committee • General Counsel and Field LLP • Steven Dew, Provost • PEC-O (March 23, 2017) Those who have been consulted: • Agreement Review Committee • Administrators of Faculties and Departments • General Counsel and Field LLP • Steven Dew, Provost Those who are actively participating: • Agreement Review Committee Approval Route (Governance) (including meeting dates) PEC-O (March 23, 2017) Statutory Deans’ Council (April 5, 2017) PACC (April 18, 2017) GFC Executive Committee (April 10, 2017) General Faculties Council (April 21, 2017) BHRCC (May 30, 2017) Final Approver Board of Governors (June 23, 2017) Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents Institutional Strategic Plan – For the Public Good,  Comprehensive Institutional Plan, Institutional values Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) The Post-Secondary Learning Act gives General Faculties Council (GFC) responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over \"academic affairs\" (section 26(1)).  The Board has authority to employ officers, employees and academic staff (sections 83 and 84 of the Act)  84 (3) A board shall, subject to any existing agreement, (a) determine the remuneration of academic staff members, (b) prescribe the duties of academic staff members, and (c) prescribe the term of employment and the terms and conditions of employment of academic staff members.  GFC has authority to approve procedures relating to the appointment, promotion and dismissal of academic staff (section 22(2)). In addition, GFC may recommend to the Board of Governors on \"procedures in respect of appointments, promotions, salaries, tenure and dismissals\" of academic staff (section 26(1)(o)).  22(2) A person shall not be appointed to, promoted to or dismissed from any position on the academic staff at a university except on the recommendation of the president made in accordance with procedures approved by the general faculties council. 26(1) (o) make recommendations to the board with respect to affiliation with other institutions, academic planning, campus planning, a building program, the budget, the regulation of residences and dining halls, procedures in respect of appointments, promotions, salaries, tenure and dismissals, and any other matters considered by the general faculties council to be of interest to the http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nuniversity; BHRCC Terms of Reference, Section 3.a. states: Without limiting the generality of the foregoing the Committee shall: (a)  consider and propose changes in collective agreements and confirm the mandate for  negotiating committees with all bargaining units; 1.  Attachment 1: Issue Brief – New Academic Teaching Staff Agreement (pages 1 - 2) 2.  Attachment 2: Side-by-Side CAS:T Agreement Amended to ATS Agreement (pages 1 – 55) 3.  Attachment 3: Title Page, Table of Contents and Appendices (pages 1-19) ",
            "Approval Route": [
                "PEC-O (March 23, 2017)",
                "Statutory Deans’ Council (April 5, 2017)",
                "PACC (April 18, 2017)",
                "GFC Executive Committee (April 10, 2017)",
                "General Faculties Council (April 21, 2017)",
                "BHRCC (May 30, 2017)"
            ],
            "Final Approver": " Board of Governors (June 23, 2017)"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "6",
            "Agenda Title": "Report and Recommendations of the Ad Hoc Committee on Academic Governance Including Delegated Authority ",
            "Date": "2017-04-21",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "David Turpin, President and Vice-Chancellor, and Chair, GFC ",
            "Presenter": " Mark Loewen, Chair and Steve Patten, Vice-Chair – Ad Hoc Committee on Academic Governance Including Delegated Authority ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility David Turpin, President and Vice-Chancellor, and Chair, GFC The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) There has been a great deal of work done over the last several months leading up to this point. The work is reflected in the Report of the Ad Hoc Committee on Academic Governance Including Delegated Authority and has focused on GFC’s mission, which is to act on its responsibility for the academic affairs of the university within a framework structured by the principles of collegial governance.  Reforming academic governance required clear principles and guidelines regarding the responsibilities of GFC members, the delegation of powers, the composition of GFC committees, and the procedural rules for meetings of GFC and its committees. Four documents were developed, for immediate approval by GFC. These documents are intended to guide the implementation of the committee’s recommendations, including revisions to standing committee terms of reference, and also serve as the basis for future efforts to evaluate and improve academic governance at the University of Alberta. The four documents to be presented for approval address the following matters:  • Principles for  Delegation of Authority • Principles for Standing Committee Composition • Roles and Responsibilities of Members • Meeting Procedural Rules  GFC is asked to endorse and approve in principle the oversight, work and implementation of the recommendations as set forth in the Report of the Ad Hoc Committee on Academic Governance Including Delegated Authority.  Endorsement and approval in principle is important because ultimately it means that GFC and committee members will be working on the governing documents – the members will be doing this work. In addition, to ensure that the recommendations in the report will be completed, and to facilitate a smooth transition, as suggested in the report, GFC Executive Committee will oversee and facilitate the implementation of the recommendations on or before April 2019.  The Impact of the Proposal is The approval of these guiding documents will inform future work for the academic governing body and are critical foundational documents. The Report of the Ad Hoc Committee on Academic Governance Including Delegated Authority presents recommendations for academic governance reform and sets forth a plan for how members can continue the work and be engaged participants in the academic governance process.   The endorsement and approval in principle of the recommendations presented in the Report of the Ad Hoc Committee on Academic Governance Including Delegated Authority will set the course for the ongoing renewal of academic governance, give oversight of this process to GFC Executive, and provide implementation timelines for renewal.  The endorsement and approval in principle of the draft GFC Standing Committee Terms of Reference will enable further work on these terms over the timelines outlined.  The recommendation of a transition process will ensure the work initiated by the Ad Hoc Committee on Academic Governance Including Delegated Authority will be completed on or before April 2019. Replaces/Revises (eg, policies, resolutions) The GFC Roles and Responsibilities of Members and GFC Meeting Procedural Rules revise elements of the GFC Terms of Reference and the General Terms of Reference for GFC Standing Committees.  Once approved, the revised documents are clear and consistent and will form part of the overall governing documents.   Timeline/Implementation Date The guiding documents will take effect upon approval at GFC on April 21, 2017 and be used to guide implementation of the recommendations of the Report of the Ad Hoc Committee on Academic Governance Including Delegated Authority along with any future renewal of academic governance. The implementation of the recommendations presented in the report will be carried out as per the timelines offered in the report. The draft GFC Standing Committee Terms of Reference will replace the current Terms of Reference upon their final approval by GFC as per the timelines outlined. Estimated Cost and funding source To be determined.  Next Steps (ie.: Communications Plan, Implementation plans) Upon approval at GFC, the Report of the Ad Hoc Committee on Academic Governance Including Delegated Authority will proceed to the implementation phase.  Upon approval by GFC, a transition will be established to continue this work and conclude no later than April 2019. Supplementary Notes and context GFC established Ad Hoc Committee on Academic Governance including Delegated Authority in September 26, 2016 ‘to draft revised Terms of Reference of GFC and all GFC Standing Committees, updating delegated authorities for recommendation to GFC by April 30, 2017” and approved the tasks outlined in the committee’s terms of reference.  The committee has met bi-weekly since the beginning of October to understand the issues and develop appropriate recommendations to address them. Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> Those who have been informed: • University Community Those who have been consulted: • See attached list of consultations (Attachment 3) Those who are actively participating: • Members of the Ad Hoc Committee on Academic Governance including Delegated Authority • University Governance Approval Route (Governance) (including meeting dates) GFC Executive – April 10, 2017 General Faculties Council – April 21, 2017 Final Approver General Faculties Council Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents For the Public Good Institutional Values The University of Alberta community of students, faculty, staff, and alumni rely on shared, deeply held values that guide behaviour and actions. These values are drawn from the principles on which the University of Alberta was founded in 1908 and reflect a dynamic, modern institution of higher learning, leading change nationally and internationally.  Above all, we value intellectual integrity, freedom of inquiry and expression, and the equality and dignity of all persons as the foundation of ethical conduct in research, teaching, learning, and service.  http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nWe value excellence in teaching, research, and creative activity that enriches learning experiences, advances knowledge, inspires engaged citizenship, and promotes the public good.  We value learners at all stages of life and strive to provide an intellectually rewarding educational environment for all.  We value academic freedom and institutional autonomy as fundamental to open inquiry and the pursuit of truth.  We value diversity, inclusivity, and equity across and among our people, campuses, and disciplines.  We value creativity and innovation from the genesis of ideas through to the dissemination of knowledge.  We value the history and traditions of our university, celebrating with pride our people, achievements, and contributions to society. Objective 21 Encourage continuous improvement in administrative, governance, planning and stewardship systems, procedures, and policies that enable students, faculty, staff, and the institutions as a whole to achieve shared strategic goals. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) “Powers of general faculties council” 26(1)Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council is responsible for the academic affairs of the university and, without restricting the generality of the foregoing, has the authority to  (a) exercise any power of a faculty council that the general faculties council considers desirable to exercise;  (b) consider and make decisions on the reports of the faculty councils as to the programs of study in the faculties;  (c) determine all programs of study to which clause (b) does not apply that are to be offered by the university for credit toward the requirements for any degree or diploma;  (d) determine the timetables for examinations and for lectures and other instruction in each faculty;  (e) consider and make decisions on the reports of faculty councils as to the appointment of examiners and the conduct and results of examinations in the faculties;  (f) provide for the granting and conferring of degrees other than honorary degrees;  (g) provide for the preparation and publication of the university calendar;  (h) hear and determine appeals from the decisions of faculty  councils on applications, requests or petitions by students and others;  (i) consider all matters reported to it by any faculty council and communicate its opinion or action on those matters to the faculty council concerned;  (j) determine the date for the beginning and end of lectures in the university and also the beginning and end of each university term; (k) make rules and regulations for the management and operation of libraries;  (l) recommend to the board the establishment of faculties, schools, departments, chairs and programs of study in the university in any subject that the general faculties council thinks fit;  (m) make rules and regulations respecting academic awards;  (n) determine standards and policies respecting the admission of persons to the university as students;  (o) make recommendations to the board with respect to affiliation with other institutions, academic planning, campus planning, a building program, the budget, the regulation of residences and dining halls, procedures in respect of appointments, promotions, salaries, tenure and dismissals, and any other matters considered by the general faculties council to be of interest to the university;  (p) authorize lecturing and teaching on the university premises by persons other than members of the staff of the university;  (q) authorize a school to have a school council of the same nature and with the same powers, duties and functions as a faculty council and, in its discretion, revoke any authority so given.  (2) Any recommendations from the general faculties council to the board must be transmitted to the board through the president. (3) A general faculties council may delegate any of its powers, duties and functions under this Act, including the powers referred to in section 31, as it sees fit and may prescribe conditions governing the exercise or performance of any delegated power, duty or function, including the power of subdelegation.” Attachments (each to be numbered 1 - <>) 1. Attachment 1 (11 pages) – GFC Guiding Documents (also included as Appendix 1 of the Report) Principles for Delegation of Authority Principles for Standing Committee Composition Roles and Responsibilities of Members Meeting Procedural Rules 2.  Attachment 2 (89 pages) - Report of the Ad Hoc Committee on Academic Governance Including Delegated Authority  3.  Attachment 3 (2 pages) – List of Consultations (also included as Appendix 6 of the Report) ",
            "Approval Route": [
                "GFC Executive – April 10, 2017",
                "General Faculties Council – April 21, 2017"
            ],
            "Final Approver": " General Faculties Council"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "8",
            "Agenda Title": "Academic Governance and Delegated Authority ",
            "Date": "2017-04-21",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "GFC Executive Committee and the Academic Governance Working Group ",
            "Presenter": " Duncan Elliott and Mirko van der Baan, Co-Chairs, Academic Governance Working Group Subject Academic Governance and Delegated Authority ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility David Turpin, President and Chair, General Faculties Council The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) To provide General Faculties Council (GFC) with a recommendation from the GFC Executive Committee and Academic Governance Working Group. To propose a plan forward for GFC and its Standing Committees to carry on with business for the next academic year, and to forward a proposal for consideration to establish an ad hoc committee to continue the work and deliver a recommendation to General Faculties Council by April 30, 2017.   Since February, the Academic Governance Working Group alongside GFC and its standing committees has been engaged in discussion  about the following questions: • Are we living up to the principles of the Committees’ Mandate? • What is the desired level of clarity on delegated authority? • Is current practice matching the Mandate? • Are we striking a correct balance between full delegation and no delegation? • Are appropriate matters being referred to full GFC from standing committee? • Is this your vision of Academic Governance?  The Impact of the Proposal is The GFC Executive Committee is recommending the proposal developed by the Academic Governance Working Group for decision by General Faculties Council at the May 30, 2016 meeting. Replaces/Revises (eg, policies, resolutions) N/A Timeline/Implementation Date Recommendation to GFC on academic governance delegations and renewal - May 30, 2016 Recommendation to GFC on revisions to Terms of Reference and delegated authority – April 30, 2017 Estimated Cost N/A Sources of Funding N/A Notes On January 25, 2016, General Faculties Council approved the following motions: Motion I:  THAT General Faculties Council will review the delegation of its authorities to all of its current committee, and by 30 June 2016 vote on whether to renew or revise these delegated authorities. 77 v. GFC April 21, 2017 Motion II: THAT the review of the governance and operations of the General Faculties Council is to be informed by the June 2013 report “A Reflection on the State of Academic Governance at the University of Alberta” The GFC Executive Committee created the Academic Governance Working Group (AGWG) to consider how to respond to the motions.  The AGWG, following several meetings, review of meeting materials and academic governance committees’ terms of reference, provided a recommendation to the GFC Executive Committee. Advice to GFC on a plan to move forward is now being presented. Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents Institutional values (2015 Comprehensive Institutional Plan) “Our values: The U of A community of students, faculty, staff, and alumni rely on shared, deeply held values that guide behaviour and actions. These values are drawn from the principles on which the University of Alberta was founded in 1908 and reflect a dynamic, modern institution of higher learning, leading change nationally and internationally. Excellence: Excellence in teaching that promotes learning; outstanding research and creative activity that fuel discovery and advance knowledge; and enlightened service that builds citizenship. Student Experience: The centrality of our students and our responsibility to provide an intellectually superior educational environment.  Integrity and Academic Freedom: Integrity, fairness, and principles of ethical conduct built on the foundation of academic freedom, open inquiry, and the pursuit of truth. Diversity and Creativity: A diverse, yet inclusive, dynamic collegial community that welcomes change and seizes opportunity with passion and creativity. Pride: Pride in our history and traditions, including contributions from Aboriginal people and other groups, which enrich and distinguish the university.” Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA)\n“Powers of general faculties council\n26(1)Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council is\nresponsible for the academic affairs of the university and, without restricting\nthe generality of the foregoing, has the authority to\n(a) exercise any power of a faculty council that the general faculties council\nconsiders desirable to exercise;\n(b) consider and make decisions on the reports of the faculty councils as to\nthe programs of study in the faculties;\n(c) determine all programs of study to which clause (b) does not apply that\nare to be offered by the university for credit toward the requirements for any\ndegree or diploma;\n78 v. GFC April 21, 2017  (d) determine the timetables for examinations and for lectures and other instruction in each faculty;   (e) consider and make decisions on the reports of faculty councils as to the appointment of examiners and the conduct and results of examinations in the faculties;   (f) provide for the granting and conferring of degrees other than honorary degrees;   (g) provide for the preparation and publication of the university calendar;   (h) hear and determine appeals from the decisions of faculty  councils on applications, requests or petitions by students and others;   (i) consider all matters reported to it by any faculty council and communicate its opinion or action on those matters to the faculty council concerned;   (j) determine the date for the beginning and end of lectures in the university and also the beginning and end of each university term; (k) make rules and regulations for the management and operation of libraries;   (l) recommend to the board the establishment of faculties, schools, departments, chairs and programs of study in the university in any subject that the general faculties council thinks fit;   (m) make rules and regulations respecting academic awards;   (n) determine standards and policies respecting the admission of persons to the university as students;   (o) make recommendations to the board with respect to affiliation with other institutions, academic planning, campus planning, a building program, the budget, the regulation of residences and dining halls, procedures in respect of appointments, promotions, salaries, tenure and dismissals, and any other matters considered by the general faculties council to be of interest to the university;   (p) authorize lecturing and teaching on the university premises by persons other than members of the staff of the university;   (q) authorize a school to have a school council of the same nature and with the same powers, duties and functions as a faculty council and, in its discretion, revoke any authority so given.  (2) Any recommendations from the general faculties council to the board must be transmitted to the board through the president. (3) A general faculties council may delegate any of its powers, duties and functions under this Act, including the powers referred to in section 31, as it sees fit and may prescribe conditions governing the exercise or performance of any delegated power, duty or function, including the power of subdelegation.” 2. General Faculties Council Terms of Reference / 3. Mandate “Powers Retained by General Faculties Council All powers and responsibilities under Section 26 of the PSLA not expressly delegated now or in the future shall be retained by General Faculties Council. (GFC 02 DEC 1966) The issues which remain with GFC or which would be referred by a Standing Committee to GFC would generally be in the nature of the following: • high level strategic and stewardship policy issues or matters of significant risk to the University; • alterations to the mandate, terms of reference, composition, or structure of a Standing Committee; 79 v. GFC April 21, 2017 • those things which a Standing Committee considers to be of major\nstrategic significance to or long-term impact on the University;\n• those matters on which, in the opinion of a Standing Committee chair,\nthere has been a strong division of opinion within the Standing Committee; and • issues in which there is a lack of clarity as to which Standing\nCommittee is responsible. 3. General Faculties Council Terms of Reference / 4. General\nFaculties Council Procedures  …. a) New Committees and Ad Hoc Committees\nWhen GFC establishes a new committee, GFC (or delegate\nbody) shall provide clear, explicit, and detailed terms of\nreference. (GFC 24 NOV 1980)\nb) Ad Hoc Committees: When an ad hoc committee is in doubt as\nto the scope of its terms of reference, it shall seek clarification and guidance from the Executive Committee of General Faculties Council. (EXEC JUN 1971)  When GFC establishes an ad hoc committee, a reporting date shall be set by the Secretary to GFC. (EXEC 03 MAY 1982) Ad hoc committees shall be considered as being discharged once their reports are received or accepted by General Faculties Council unless the committee recommends otherwise, or General Faculties Council requests it to continue. (GFC 29 APR 1968) 4. GFC Executive Committee Terms of Reference/3. Mandate of\nthe Committee:  “To act as the executive body of General Faculties Council and, in general, carry out the functions delegated to it by General Faculties Council.”  […] “5. Agendas of General Faculties Council GFC has delegated to the Executive Committee the authority to decide which items are placed on a GFC Agenda, and the order in which those agenda items appear on each GFC agenda.  When ordering items, the GFC Executive Committee will be mindful of any matters that are of particular concern to students during March and April so that the student leaders who bring those items forward are able to address these items at GFC before their terms end. (EXEC 06 NOV 2006)  […] With respect to recommendations from other bodies and other GFC committees, however, the role of the Executive Committee shall be to examine and debate the substance of reports or recommendations and to decide if an item is ready to be forwarded to the full governing body. The Executive Committee may decide to refer a proposal back 80 v. GFC April 21, 2017 to the originating body, to refer the proposal to another body or individual for study or review, or to take other action in order to ready a proposal for consideration by General Faculties Council. When the GFC Executive Committee forwards a proposal to GFC, it shall make a recommendation that GFC endorse; endorse with suggested amendments; not endorse; or forward the proposal with no comment.” Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) GFC Executive Committee (for discussion) – December 7, 2015 and January 11, 2016 General Faculties Council (for discussion) – January 25, 2016 GFC Executive Committee (for discussion) – February 1 and March 7, 2016 GFC Executive Committee Working Group  on Academic Governance (for discussion)– February/March  General Faculties Council (for discussion) – March 21, 2016 Academic Governance Working Group (for discussion) – April 2016 GFC Executive Committee (for discussion) – April 11, 2016 General Faculties Council – May 2, 2016 Academic Governance Working Group (for discussion) – May  2016 General Faculties Council Executive – May 16, 2016 Approval Route (Governance) (including meeting dates) GFC Executive Committee – May 16, 2016 General Faculties Council – May 30, 2016 Final Approver General Faculties Council – May 30, 2016 Attachments: Attachment 1 (pages 1-6): Excerpt from the Post-Secondary Learning Act, sections 26 and 31. Complete text available at: http://www.qp.alberta.ca/documents/Acts/p19p5.pdf  Attachment 2: Presentation to GFC, May 30, 2016  ",
            "Approval Route": [
                "GFC Executive Committee – May 16, 2016",
                "General Faculties Council – May 30, 2016"
            ],
            "Final Approver": " General Faculties Council – May 30, 2016"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "7",
            "Agenda Title": " General Faculties Council Standing Committee Report GFC Executive Committee",
            "Date": "2017-04-21",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "N/A",
            "Presenter": "N/A",
            "Description": "1. Since the last GFC meeting, the Executive Committee met on April 10, 2017. 2. Items Approved Under Delegated Authority Proposed Parchment Wording for the Centre Collégial de l’Alberta Programs GFC Agenda for April 21, 2017 3. Items Recommended to GFC Negotiated (Proposed) Changes to the Contract Academic Staff: Teaching (CAS:T) Agreement GFC Ad Hoc Committee on Academic Governance Including Delegated Authority: Report and Recommendations 4. Items that the Committee Discussed or Advised on  Update from the Secretary to General Faculties Council on Reapportionment Terms of reference and records of meetings for this committee can be found at: http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/ExecutiveCommittee.aspx ",
            "Approval Route": "N/A",
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        }
    ],
    "PDF url": "GFC_Friday, April 21, 2017 \n_Material.pdf"
}