{
    "Committee": "GFC",
    "Date": "Monday, November 21, 2016 \n",
    "Title": "GFC General Faculties Council - 2016-11-21",
    "Location": "Council Chambers",
    "Time": "2:00 PM - 4:00 PM",
    "Attendees": [
        "David Turpin Chair, President and Vice-Chancellor, University of Alberta, Statutory",
        "Ahmad Al-Dabbagh Member, Graduate Student at-Large",
        "Chris Andersen Member, Dean, Native Studies (Interim)",
        "Susan Andrew Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Larry Kostiuk (Delegate) Member, Vice-President (Research), Statutory",
        "Marina Banister Member, Student Nominated by UG Council of Students",
        "Howard Bashaw Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Darcy Bemister Member, Graduate Student at-Large",
        "Faiza Billo Member, Board of Governors Representative, NASA Appointee",
        "Michelle Borowitz Member, Graduate Student at-Large",
        "Cary Brown Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Sylvia Brown Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Heather Bruce Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Andy Canjina Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Alicia Cappello Member, Graduate Student at-Large",
        "Peter Carver Member, Statutory Academic Staff, Law",
        "Lisa Collins Member, Vice-Provost and University Registrar, Statutory",
        "David Cooper Member, Board of Governors Representative and AASUA Appointee",
        "Lesley Cormack Member, Dean, Arts, Statutory",
        "André Costopoulos Member, Vice-Provost and Dean of Students",
        "Kathleen DeLong Member, Vice-Provost and Chief Librarian, Statutory",
        "Steven Dew Member, Provost and Vice-President (Academic), Statutory",
        "Ryan Dunch Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Francesca El Ghossein Member, Student Nominated by UG Council of Students, V-P (Student Life)",
        "Tarek El-Bialy Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Duncan Elliott Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Shannon Erichsen Member, Non-Academic Staff (Nominated by NASA)",
        "Dean Eurich Member, Statutory Academic Staff, School of Public Health",
        "John Evjen Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Sarah Ficko Member, Board of Governors Representative, President, Graduate Students'",
        "Association",
        "Kyle Foster Member, Graduate Student at-Large",
        "Matthew Fund Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Adam Gaudry Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Murray Gingras Member, Statutory Academic Staff, Science",
        "Saige Godberson-Parlin Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Daniel Gomez Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Nicole Hammond Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "John Hampson Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Lesley Harrington Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "GFC General Faculties Council 11/21/2016",
        "Page 2",
        "Calvin Howard Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Adina Ilisecu Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Wajiha Islam Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Paul Jurasz Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Maryam Kebbe Member, Graduate Student at-Large",
        "Jonathan Kolodychuk Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Gitta Kulczycki Member, Vice-President (Finance & Administration), Statutory",
        "Reed Larsen Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Cerina Lee Member, Graduate Student at-Large",
        "Pierre Lemelin Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Bernard Lemire Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Wei Liu Member, Non-Academic Staff (Nominated by NASA)",
        "Mark Loewen Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Maria Mayan Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Lisa McDermott Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Laurie Mereu Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Anita Molzahn Member, Dean, Nursing, Statutory",
        "Paris Morin Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Colin Mulholland Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Alice Nakamura Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Carla Peck Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Fahim Rahman Member, Board of Governors Representative, President, UA Students' Union",
        "Bahador Rashidi Member, Graduate Student at-Large",
        "Leonard Ratzlaff Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Sandra Rein Member, Statutory Academic Staff, Augustana",
        "Marc Secanell Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Andrew Sharman Member, Vice-President (Facilities and Operations), Statutory",
        "Carrie Smith-Prei Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Kim Solez Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Jorge Sousa Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Sarah Stahlke Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Eleni Stroulia Member, Statutory Academic Staff, Science",
        "Brent Swallow Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Jacqui Tam Member, Vice-President (University Relations), Statutory",
        "Amy Tse Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Benjamin Tucker Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Sasha Van der Klein Member, Student Nominated by GSA Council of Students",
        "Harley Vanselow Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Dilini Vethanayagam Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Amanda Wakaruk Member, University Library Academic Staff",
        "Elizabeth Wallace Member, University Library Academic Staff",
        "Jason R. Wang Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Akiko Watanabe Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Bonnie Watt Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Kathleen Weiss Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Brayden Whitlock Member, Graduate Student at-Large",
        "Erin Wright Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Denise Young Member, St. Joseph's College Representative, Appointee to GFC",
        "Jack Zhang Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Deborah Burshtyn (Delegate) Member, Dean, Faculty of Graduate Studies and Research (Interim)",
        "David Turpin President and Chair, General Faculties Council",
        "GFC General Faculties Council 11/21/2016",
        "Page 3",
        "Wendy Rodgers Deputy Provost and Chair, GFC Facilities Development Committee (FDC)",
        "Lee Foote Director, Devonian Botanic Garden (DBG)",
        "Andrew Sharman Vice-President (Facilities and Operations)",
        "Lisa Collins Vice-Provost and University Registrar",
        "Mary Persson Associate Vice-President (Audit and Analysis) and University Auditor, Internal",
        "Audit Services",
        "Logan Mardhani-Bayne Initiatives Manager, Audit & Analysis",
        "Naomi Krogman Director of Sustainability Scholarship and Education, Office of the Provost",
        "and Vice-President (Academic)",
        "Mark Loewen Professor, Faculty of Engineering and Chair, GFC Ad Hoc Committee",
        "Wayne Patterson Executive Director, Human Resource Services",
        "Steven Dew Provost and Vice-President (Academic)",
        "Trina Innes Chief Sustainability Officer",
        "Meg Brolley, GFC Secretary and Manager of GFC Services"
    ],
    "Items": [
        {
            "Item No.": "3",
            "Agenda Title": "http://blog.ualberta.ca/2016/09/state-of-university-address-2016.html https://www.ualberta.ca/strategic-plan",
            "Date": "2016-11-21",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "N/A",
            "Presenter": "N/A",
            "Description": "https://www.ualberta.ca/strategic-plan\n2 Indigenous Relations and Reconciliation: At the end of September, we hosted the 2nd annual Building Reconciliation Forum. Building Reconciliation brought together Canadian university presidents and their leadership teams, First Nations, Métis and Inuit leaders, student leaders, Indigenous scholars, and scholars dedicated to research that is conducted in partnership with—and is meaningful to—Indigenous peoples. The U of A was proud to host this important event, and I was honoured to be a part of the proceedings. I found it a remarkable opportunity to listen and learn from diverse and compelling perspectives on the role of post-secondary education in reconciliation. I’m heartened by the many reconciliation initiatives originating from all corners of our university.  They indicate that the University of Alberta will continue work towards thoughtful, respectful, and meaningful reconciliation with Indigenous peoples. Universities Canada I recently accepted an invitiation to join the Universities Canada board of directors, effective immediately. Universities Canada is made up of 97 member institutions from across the country, and focuses on building collaboration amongst universities and governments, the private sector, communities and international partners. I look forward to my membership on the board of directors as an opportunity to cultivate our relationship with the federal government, and advance the U of A’s strengths and interests at the national level.  International Travel This October, I witnessed first hand the breadth, depth and reach of the University of Alberta’s relationships and partnerships in China.  During our tour of China, we signed memoranda of understanding with three different institutions: Tsinghua University (Joint Energy Systems Research Centre), East China Normal University (advanced scientific research centre), and  China Electric Technology Group Corporation (research service agreement). China’s vice-minister of education commended the University of Alberta’s high level of engagement in China. In addition to opening the door to many partnerships, that engagement recently put us into position to lead the creation of the Canadian Learning Initiative in China (CLIC), which enables two-way, study-abroad opportunities for both Canadian and Chinese students.   I have provided a more detailed relflection about the tour on The Quad. I depart for India near the end of November, and I’m looking forward to another productive and engaging trip. I have several government and industry meetings scheduled, and I will be participating in a panel discussion on alternative energy solutions at the 2016 PetroTech Conference. I will provide updates following the trip.  https://www.ualberta.ca/news-and-events/newsarticles/2016/october/walking-the-walk-on-truth-and-reconciliation\nhttp://blog.ualberta.ca/2016/11/from-presidents-desk-nov-1.html\n3 Academic Excellence At the end of October, 20 graduate students, post-doctoral fellows, and professors were recognized at the annual Killam celebration for their outstanding academic achievement, leadership, and mentorship. The Killam awards are a tradition that stretches back nearly half a century at the University of Alberta. The U of A was recently named one of Canada’s top five universities as part of the Maclean’s annual university rankings. The Maclean’s ranking is based on five broad areas: quality of students, faculty, resources, student support, and reputation. The ranking is a reflection of the high-quality, supportive learning environment that we’ve created at the University of Alberta. I want to thank each of you for the contributions that you make to this great university.  Senior Leadership Transitions As many of you know, Richard Fedorak has been appointed dean of the Faculty of Medicine & Dentistry for the period November 1, 2016 to June 30, 2021. He has served as interim dean of the faculty since February of 2015. I also want to welcome Gitta Kulczycki, who started her term as vice-president (finance and administration) on November 1.  Lastly, I want to thank the 1200 faculty, staff, and students who volunteered during the Fort McMurray crisis earlier this summer, and who were recognized at an appreciation event on November 9. As the story of the university’s response came together, I was reminded of how proud I am to be a member of this supportive, thoughtful, and engaged community. Sincerely yours, David Turpin, CM, LLD, FRSC President and Vice-Chancellor http://blog.ualberta.ca/2016/10/2016-killam-laureates-honoured.html\nhttps://www.ualberta.ca/news-and-events/newsarticles/2016/october/ualberta-among-canadas-top-five-in-new-macleans-rankings\nhttp://blog.ualberta.ca/2016/10/richard-fedorak-appointed-dean-of.html\nhttp://blog.ualberta.ca/2016/06/announcement-vice-presidential.html\nhttps://www.ualberta.ca/news-and-events/newsarticles/2016/november/grace-under-fire\n GENERAL FACULTIES COUNCIL OPEN SESSION For the Meeting of November 21, 2016 The following statutory faculty member who has been elected/re-elected by their Faculty, to serve on GFC for term of office beginning immediately and ending June 30, 2019: Alice Nakamura Business, Alberta School of The following undergraduate student representatives, to serve on GFC for terms beginning immediately and ending on April 30, 2017: John Hampson Faculty of Arts Adina Ilisecu Faculty of Arts John Evjen Faculty of Education Saige Godberson-Parlin Faculty of Nursing Andrew Steele Faculty of Physical Education and Recreation General Faculties Council Standing Committee Report Facilities Development Committee 1. Since the last Report was issued, the Facilities Development Committee has met twice, on June 23, 2016\nand September 22, 2016.\n2. Actions Taken with Delegated Authority from GFC:\nSeptember 22, 2016 Approved the Design Development Report of the Maskwa House of Learning Detailed Motion and Final Document Summary: http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/FacilitiesDevelopmentCommittee.aspx 3. Items that the Committee Discussed or Advised on:\nJune 23, 2016 Lister 5 Design Development Report East Campus Village 9 Design Development Report September 22, 2016 Devonian Botanic Garden Sector Plan Campus Wayfinding on North Campus University of Alberta Sustainability Plan Terms of reference and records of meetings for this committee can be found at: http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/FacilitiesDevelopmentCommittee.aspx ",
            "Approval Route": "N/A",
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "6",
            "Agenda Title": "For the Public Good: Preliminary Recommendations for Performance Indicators ",
            "Date": "2016-11-21",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "President Provost and Vice-President (Academic) ",
            "Presenter": " Mary Persson (AVP, Audit and Analysis) and Logan Mardhani-Bayne (Initiatives Manager, Audit and Analysis) ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Office of the President The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) In July 2016, the University established an advisory group to recommend a framework for reporting on performance against For the Public Good. This document presents preliminary recommendations for input by General Faculties Council on November 21. Timeline/Implementation Date  Supplementary Notes and context The attachments provide additional details on the preliminary recommendations and membership of the advisory group.  Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> Those who have been informed: • Chairs’ Council – September 20, 2016 • Deans’ Council – September 21, 2016  Those who have been consulted: • Office of the President (review and comment) • Office of the Provost (review and comment) • University Research Planning Committee – September 29, 2016  • President’s Executive Committee – Strategic – Sept. 30, 2016  • Deans’ Council – October 5, 2016  • GFC Academic Planning Committee – October 12, 2016  • Provosts’ Advisory Council of Chairs – October 17, 2016 • GFC Executive Committee – October 17, 2016 • Board of Governors – October 21, 2016 • Vice-Provosts’ Council – October 24, 2016 Those who are actively participating: • See attachment for advisory group membership Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents For the Public Good (item presents recommended performance indicators) Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) “26(1) Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council is responsible for the academic affairs of the university”’ “60(1) The board of a public post-secondary institution shall (a) manage and operate the public post-secondary institution in accordance with its mandate, (b) develop, manage and operate, alone or in co-operation with any http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nperson or organization, programs, services and facilities for the economic prosperity of Alberta and for the educational or cultural advancement of the people of Alberta” 2. General Faculties Council Terms of Reference (3. Mandate of the Committee) “The issues which remain with GFC or which would be referred by a Standing Committee to GFC would generally be in the nature of the following: • high level strategic and stewardship policy issues or matters of significant risk to the University” 3. GFC Executive Committee Terms of Reference (3. Mandate of the Committee) “GFC has delegated to the Executive Committee the authority to decide which items are placed on a GFC Agenda, and the order in which those agenda items appear on each GFC agenda.” 4. GFC Academic Planning Committee Terms of Reference (3. Mandate of the Committee) “In like manner, the President, Provost and Vice-President (Academic) or other Vice-Presidents may refer any matter to APC for consideration or recommendation to GFC.”’  “ APC is responsible for making recommendations to GFC and/or to the Board of Governors concerning policy matters and action matters with respect to the following: 1. Planning and Priorities To recommend to GFC and/or the Board of Governors on planning and priorities with respect to the University’s longer term academic, financial, and facilities development.” Attachments (each to be numbered 1 - <>) 1. For the Public Good (FPG) – Preliminary Recommendations for Performance Indicators (page(s) 1 - 10) 2. FPG Performance Indicators Advisory Group – membership (1 page) ",
            "Approval Route": "N/A",
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "8",
            "Agenda Title": "University of Alberta Sustainability Plan 2016-2020 ",
            "Date": "2016-11-21",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "Provost and Vice-President (Academic); Vice-President (Facilities and Operations) ",
            "Presenter": " Andrew Sharman, Vice-President (Facilities and Operations); Trina Innes, Chief Sustainability Officer, Office of Sustainability; Naomi Krogman, Director of Sustainability Scholarship and Education, Office of the Provost and Vice-President (Academic) ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic); Vice-President (Facilities and Operations) The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) This presentation will provide background on the sustainability plan and the academic companion document. It will seek your support and advice for making progress on the aspirational goals and strategies that will guide the campus sustainability initiative to the year 2020. To place this document on the GFC agenda for November 21. Timeline/Implementation Date 2016-2020 Supplementary Notes and context Background: Sustainability is increasingly at the forefront of agendas for local, provincial and national governments, as well as higher education. In 2008, the Board of Governors endorsed the institution’s sustainability commitment and guiding principles, the creation of the campus sustainability initiative and the launch of the Office of Sustainability.  The University of Alberta has recently reaffirmed its commitment to advance sustainability through For the Public Good. A new sustainability plan has been developed for 2016-2020 as well as a companion document to inform academic planning. The new sustainability plan outlines areas for improving our institution’s sustainability performance and educational programming. It will be used to help guide strategic decisions across the institution, program decisions regarding outreach initiatives, operational improvements and enhancements to academic programs. The University of Alberta has a growing positive reputation for being a leader enabling the sustainability transformation in higher education in Canada and beyond. As a result of the goals and strategies outlined in the 2012 – 2016 Sustainability Plan, the University of Alberta moved to a Gold Rating (2014) from a Silver Rating (2012) in the Sustainability Tracking, Assessment & Rating System. We have also been recognized as one of Canada’s Greenest Employers for 8 consecutive years. Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> Those who have been informed: • The President’s Executive Committee – Operations (PEC-O) was informed about the process on December 11, 2014. • Advisory committees were engaged in a review of the consultation process in the spring of 2015. • The draft document was developed using an iterative consultation and document review process involving those identified as being “consulted”. • Reviews were coordinated through senior administration prior to the final document being brought forward for approval at PEC-O but the VP F&O and Deputy Provost • GFC Facilities Development Committee – September 22, 2016 • GFC Academic Planning Committee – September 28, 2016 • GFC Committee on the Learning Environment – October 5, 2016 • GFC Executive Committee – October 17, 2016 • General Faculties Council – November 21, 2016 • Board Learning and Discovery Committee Those who have been consulted: Facilitated Workshops, March – April 2015 • Waste Management Systems (Feb. 6; Mar. 12) • Energy & Climate Change (Feb. 11; Mar. 23) • Food Systems (Feb.13; Mar. 24) • Campus Spaces (Feb. 2; Mar. 13) • Teaching & Research (Feb. 6; Apr. 8) • Augustana Campus (Feb.17; Mar. 25) • Campus Saint-Jean (Feb.19; Apr. 10) • Diversity & Affordability (Feb.19; Mar. 31) • Engagement (Feb.13; Mar. 23) • Student Health & Wellness (Feb.10; Mar. 16) • Sustainable Investments (Feb 9; Mar. 23) • Staff/Faculty Health & Wellness (Feb. 12; Mar. 26) • Sustainable Purchasing (Feb.17; Mar. 26) • Residences (Feb.11; Mar. 20) • Coordination Planning & Governance (Feb. 24; Apr. 7) Working Groups & Advisory Committees • Sustainability Advisory Committee, Office of Sustainability • Sustainable Operations Advisory Committee, Facilities & Operations • Provost's Academic Advisory Council on Sustainability • Sustainable Purchasing Working Group • Waste Diversion Working Group • F&O Executive Committee       All Units in Facilities & Operations, Summer 2015 Deans, Associate Deans, sustainability focused degree programs,   Spring/Summer 2015 STARS™ Gap Analysis, Sustainability Plan Planning Team, Summer 2015 Offices of Vice-President and Senior Administrative Officers, All Portfolios http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nSupply Management Services Human Resources ~ 90 Individual Contributors or Responsible Parties Those who are actively participating: • Vice-President (Facilities & Operations) • Deputy Provost • Office of Sustainability • Energy Management & Sustainable Operations, F&O • Advisory Committees and Working Groups: • Sustainable Operations Advisory Committee, F&O • Provost’s Academic Advisory Council on Sustainability • Sustainable Purchasing Working Group • Waste Diversion Working Group • Sustainable Food Working Group Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents Comprehensive Institutional Plan  For the Public Good  The Sustainability Plan presents opportunities to make progress on a range of goals and objectives in the ISP including, but not limited to: GOAL: BUILD a diverse, inclusive community of exceptional students, faculty, and staff from Alberta, Canada, and the world. Objective 5: Build and strengthen trust, connection, and a        sense of belonging among all members of the university community through a focus on shared values. GOAL: EXPERIENCE diverse and rewarding learning opportunities that inspire us, nurture our talents, expand our knowledge and skills, and enable our success. Objective 7: Increase graduate and undergraduate students’ access to and participation in a broad range of curricular experiential learning opportunities that are well-integrated with program goals and enrich their academic experience. GOAL: EXCEL as individuals, and together, sustain a culture that fosters and champions distinction and distinctiveness in teaching, learning, research and service. Objective 11: Advance the University of Alberta’s reputation for research excellence by pursuing fundamental and original questions and ideas, pushing the frontiers of knowledge, inspiring creative experimentation, driving innovation, and advancing society. Objective 15: Foster a culture of excellence by enriching, learning and professional development opportunities for staff, faculty and post-\ndoctoral fellows. GOAL: ENGAGE communities across our campuses, city and region, province, nation, and the world to create reciprocal, mutually beneficial learning experiences, research projects, partnerships, and collaborations. Objective 17: Facilitate, build, and support interdisciplinary, cross-faculty, and cross-unit engagement and collaboration. Objective 18: Seek, build, strengthen, and sustain partnerships with local, national, or international research agencies, governments, government ministries and agencies, universities, Indigenous communities, libraries, not-for-profits, industry, business, and community organizations. GOAL: SUSTAIN our people, our work, and the environment by attracting and stewarding the resources we need to deliver excellence to the benefit of all. Objective 20: Continue to build and support an integrated approach to social, economic, and environmental sustainability that incorporates teaching and learning, research, outreach, capacity building, and the operations that support them.  Strategy ii: Embed social, economic, and environmental sustainability into the development and care of the university’s natural and built environments. Strategy iii: Enhance awareness of, and engagement with, the university’s environmental sustainability features, practices, and resources across the University of Alberta campuses and external communities. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-secondary Learning Act (PSLA) “26(1) Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council is responsible for the academic affairs of the university” “60(1) The Board of a public post-secondary institution shall (a) manage and operate the public post-secondary institution in accordance with its mandate.” 2. GFC Academic Planning Committee Terms of Reference (3. Mandate) “The Academic Planning Committee (APC) is GFC’s senior committee dealing with academic, financial and planning issues. […] may also ask to consider or recommend to GFC on any academic issue, including 1) those issues under the purview of other GFC committees, 2) any academic issue related to restructuring, 3) any research-related issue, or 4) issues linked to academic service units where those issues have significant academic impact. […] APC is also responsible to GFC for promoting an optimal learning environment for students and excellence in teaching, research, and graduate studies.”  3. GFC Committee on the Learning Environment Terms of Reference (3 Mandate) “The Committee on the Learning Environment is a standing committee of the General Faculties Council that promotes an optimal learning environment in alignment with guiding documents of the University of Alberta.  The Committee on the Learning Environment is responsible for making recommendations concerning policy matters and action matters with respect to the following:  […] e) To nurture the development of innovative and creative teaching practices. f) To encourage the sharing and discussion of evidence about effective teaching and learning. g) To promote critical reflection on the impact of broad societal changes in teaching, learning, and the learning environment. h) To promote projects with relevant internal and external bodies that offer unique teaching and learning opportunities that would benefit the university community.” 4. GFC Executive Committee Terms of Reference (3. Mandate) “To act as the executive body of General Faculties Council and, in general, carry out the functions delegated to it by General Faculties Council. (GFC 08 SEP 1966) (GFC 12 FEB 1996)” “5. Agendas of General Faculties Council GFC has delegated to the Executive Committee the authority to decide which items are placed on a GFC Agenda, and the order in which those agenda items appear on each GFC agenda.” 5. General Faculties Council Terms of Reference (3. Mandate)  “The issues which remain with GFC or which would be referred by a Standing Committee to GFC would generally be in the nature of the following: • high level strategic and stewardship policy issues or matters of significant risk to the University; […] • those things which a Standing Committee considers to be of major strategic significance to or long-term impact on the University;” Attachments  1. Briefing Note (2 pages) 2. Sustainability Plan 2016-2020 (29 pages) 3. A Plan for Deepening Sustainability Education and Scholarship at the University of Alberta (34 pages) 4. Campus Initiatives Report 2012 – 2015 (12 pages) ",
            "Approval Route": "N/A",
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "9",
            "Agenda Title": "Guiding Principles of the GFC ad hoc Committee on Academic Governance including Delegated Authority ",
            "Date": "2016-11-21",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "GFC ad hoc Committee on Academic Governance including Delegated Authority ",
            "Presenter": " Mark Loewen, Chair, and Steve Patten, Vice-Chair of the GFC ad hoc Committee on Academic Governance including Delegated Authority ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility David Turpin, President and Chair, General Faculties Council The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) To present for endorsement by General Faculties Council, the principles which will guide the work of the ad hoc committee.  The Impact of the Proposal is To provide GFC with an update on the direction that the work of the ad hoc committee is taking.  Replaces/Revises (eg, policies, resolutions) N/A Timeline/Implementation Date N/A Estimated Cost and funding source N/A Next Steps (ie.: Communications Plan, Implementation plans) The ad hoc Committee will continue to meet on a regular basis to fulfill its mandate and will provide reports to the GFC Executive Committee and GFC on a regular basis.  Final report and recommendations will be submitted to GFC on or before 30 April 2016. Supplementary Notes and context Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> Those who have been informed: Those who have been consulted:  President  Provost and Vice-President (Academic)  GFC Executive Committee – October 31, 2016 Those who are actively participating:  GFC ad hoc Committee on Academic Governance including Delegation  http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\n University Governance Approval Route (Governance) (including meeting dates) GFC Executive –October 31, 2016 (for recommendation) Final Approver GFC –November 21, 2016 (for endorsement) Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents For the Public Good Institutional Values  The University of Alberta community of students, faculty, staff, and alumni rely on shared, deeply held values that guide behaviour and actions. These values are drawn from the principles on which the University of Alberta was founded in 1908 and reflect a dynamic, modern institution of higher learning, leading change nationally and internationally.  Above all, we value intellectual integrity, freedom of inquiry and expression, and the equality and dignity of all persons as the foundation of ethical conduct in research, teaching, learning, and service.  We value excellence in teaching, research, and creative activity that enriches learning experiences, advances knowledge, inspires engaged citizenship, and promotes the public good.  We value learners at all stages of life and strive to provide an intellectually rewarding educational environment for all.  We value academic freedom and institutional autonomy as fundamental to open inquiry and the pursuit of truth.  We value diversity, inclusivity, and equity across and among our people, campuses, and disciplines.  We value creativity and innovation from the genesis of ideas through to the dissemination of knowledge.  We value the history and traditions of our university, celebrating with pride our people, achievements, and contributions to society. Strategic Goals  Goal:  EXCEL as individuals, and together, sustain a culture that fosters and champions distinction and distinctiveness in teaching, learning, research, and service. To excel and achieve our full potential as an institution and as individuals, the University of Alberta will sustain a learning and research culture that inspires, supports, and champions high professional standards and outstanding achievements in basic and applied research and scholarship, creative activity, administration, and governance. We will ensure that learning experiences at our university are of the highest quality, based on a practice of continuous improvement and innovation in teaching. From our broad-based strength as a comprehensive, research-\nintensive public university, we will highlight current and emerging areas of global distinction and leadership by building a portfolio of signature areas that distinguish us from among our peer institutions and exemplify the University of Alberta’s capacity to engage in big questions and global challenges. Goal:  SUSTAIN our people, our work, and the environment by attracting and stewarding the resources we need to deliver excellence to the benefit of all Albertans. To achieve our strategic goals, the University of Alberta will attract and steward the resources we need to excel and deliver our core teaching and research mission at the high standard expected by all Albertans. We will build on our capacities for securing new sources of operating, capital, research, and philanthropic funding. We will continue to model and advance teaching and learning in the area of environmental sustainability on our campuses and in our work. We must sustain our people by promoting health, wellness, and safety as a defining feature of the University of Alberta’s learning and working experience, and by maintaining and enhancing the university’s essential teaching, learning, and research infrastructure. Continuous improvement and cross-unit engagement and co-operation will define our approach to governance and administration to ensure that our systems, policies, and procedures facilitate the achievement of our shared goals. Objective 21:  Encourage continuous improvement in administrative, governance, planning and stewardship systems, procedures, and policies that enable students, faculty, staff, and the institutions as a whole to achieve shared strategic goals. Strategy i: Encourage transparency and improve communication across the university through clear consultation and decision-making processes, substantive and timely communication of information, and access to shared, reliable institutional data.  Strategy ii: Ensure that individual and institutional annual review processes align with and support key institutional strategic goals.  Strategy iii: Consolidate unit review and strategic planning processes, and where possible, align with accreditation processes, to ensure efficient assessment practices.  Strategy iv: Facilitate easy access to and use of university services and systems; reduce duplication and complexity; and encourage cross-\ninstitutional administrative and operational collaboration.  Strategy v: Develop a set of equitable, meaningful, and relevant measures to monitor our progress toward strategic goals and develop the tools required to report on them. Compliance with Legislation, 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) “Powers of general faculties council” 26(1)Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council is responsible for the academic affairs of the university and, without restricting the generality of the foregoing, has the authority to   (a) exercise any power of a faculty council that the general faculties council considers desirable to exercise;   (b) consider and make decisions on the reports of the faculty councils as to the programs of study in the faculties;   (c) determine all programs of study to which clause (b) does not apply that are to be offered by the university for credit toward the requirements for any degree or diploma;   (d) determine the timetables for examinations and for lectures and other instruction in each faculty;   (e) consider and make decisions on the reports of faculty councils as to the appointment of examiners and the conduct and results of examinations in the faculties;   (f) provide for the granting and conferring of degrees other than honorary degrees;   (g) provide for the preparation and publication of the university calendar;   (h) hear and determine appeals from the decisions of faculty  councils on applications, requests or petitions by students and others;   (i) consider all matters reported to it by any faculty council and communicate its opinion or action on those matters to the faculty council concerned;   (j) determine the date for the beginning and end of lectures in the university and also the beginning and end of each university term; (k) make rules and regulations for the management and operation of libraries;   (l) recommend to the board the establishment of faculties, schools, departments, chairs and programs of study in the university in any subject that the general faculties council thinks fit;   (m) make rules and regulations respecting academic awards;   (n) determine standards and policies respecting the admission of persons to the university as students;   (o) make recommendations to the board with respect to affiliation with other institutions, academic planning, campus planning, a building program, the budget, the regulation of residences and dining halls, procedures in respect of appointments, promotions, salaries, tenure and dismissals, and any other matters considered by the general faculties council to be of interest to the university;   (p) authorize lecturing and teaching on the university premises by persons other than members of the staff of the university;   (q) authorize a school to have a school council of the same nature and with the same powers, duties and functions as a faculty council and, in its discretion, revoke any authority so given.  (2) Any recommendations from the general faculties council to the board must be transmitted to the board through the president. (3) A general faculties council may delegate any of its powers, duties and functions under this Act, including the powers referred to in section 31, as it sees fit and may prescribe conditions governing the exercise or performance of any delegated power, duty or function, including the power of subdelegation.” 2. General Faculties Council Terms of Reference / 3. Mandate “Powers Retained by General Faculties Council” All powers and responsibilities under Section 26 of the PSLA not expressly delegated now or in the future shall be retained by General Faculties Council. (GFC 02 DEC 1966) The issues which remain with GFC or which would be referred by a Standing Committee to GFC would generally be in the nature of the following: • high level strategic and stewardship policy issues or matters of significant risk to the University; • alterations to the mandate, terms of reference, composition, or structure of a Standing Committee; • those things which a Standing Committee considers to be of major strategic significance to or long-term impact on the University; • those matters on which, in the opinion of a Standing Committee chair, there has been a strong division of opinion within the Standing Committee; and • issues in which there is a lack of clarity as to which Standing Committee is responsible. 3. General Faculties Council ad hoc Committee on Academic Governance including Delegation Terms of Reference “1. To examine the terms of reference of all GFC standing committees paying particular attention to:  Mandate (structured appropriately? Duplication? Gaps? Current practice)  Delegated authority  Committee composition (appropriate size and membership)  Current context 2.  To identify the key elements in each GFC Standing Committee’s role as it relates to the responsibilities and efficacy of the overall academic governance of GFC. 3.  To initiate discussion on any other matters the ad hoc committee considers relevant to its purpose and to provide recommendations on other matters related to academic governance that arise during the review. 4. To be informed by the GFC discussions in 2015-16 (March 21 materials and minutes; May 2 materials and minutes), including documents such as ‘A Reflection on the State of Academic Governance at the University of Alberta’ and other literature and best practices in the field.” 4. GFC Executive Committee Terms of Reference/3. Mandate of the Committee:   “To act as the executive body of General Faculties Council and, in general, carry out the functions delegated to it by General Faculties Council.”  […] “Agendas of General Faculties Council GFC has delegated to the Executive Committee the authority to decide which items are placed on a GFC Agenda, and the order in which those agenda items appear on each GFC agenda.  When ordering items, the GFC Executive Committee will be mindful of any matters that are of particular concern to students during March and April so that the student leaders who bring those items forward are able to address these items at GFC before their terms end. (EXEC 06 NOV 2006)  […] With respect to recommendations from other bodies and other GFC committees, however, the role of the Executive Committee shall be to examine and debate the substance of reports or recommendations and to decide if an item is ready to be forwarded to the full governing body. The Executive Committee may decide to refer a proposal back to the originating body, to refer the proposal to another body or individual for study or review, or to take other action in order to ready a proposal for consideration by General Faculties Council. When the GFC Executive Committee forwards a proposal to GFC, it shall make a recommendation that GFC endorse; endorse with suggested amendments; not endorse; or forward the proposal with no comment.” Attachments (each to be numbered 1 - 2) 1.  Attachment 1- GFC ad hoc Committee on Academic Governance including Delegation – Guiding Principles (2 pages) ",
            "Approval Route": [
                "GFC Executive –October 31, 2016 (for recommendation)"
            ],
            "Final Approver": " GFC –November 21, 2016 (for endorsement)"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "10",
            "Agenda Title": "Proposed Changes to the Statement on Equity in Student Affairs ",
            "Date": "2016-11-21",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "Provost and Vice-President (Academic), and Vice-Provost and University Registrar ",
            "Presenter": " Lisa Collins, Vice-Provost and University Registrar ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) To revise the Student Statement on Equity to reflect changes to Alberta Human Rights Legislation and changing norms in diversity and equity within the academy. The Impact of the Proposal is The proposed changes align with the University Statement on Equity which is used on all academic and support staff job postings as outlined in the UAPPOL Procedures for Academic Staff Posting and Advertising and Support Staff Posting and Advertising.  Replaces/Revises (eg, policies, resolutions) Revises Statement on Equity in Student Affairs and the General Admission Requirements of the University Calendar Timeline/Implementation Date 2017-2018 University Calendar Estimated Cost and funding source N/A Next Steps (ie.: Communications Plan, Implementation plans) The revised Statement on Equity in Student Affairs would be included in the 2017-18 University Calendar. Supplementary Notes and context Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> Those who have been informed: • Jay Spark Vice-Provost & Associate VP (HR) and the Office of Faculty Relations - August 19, 2015 Those who have been consulted: • Heather Zwicker, Vice-Provost  Interim Dean, FGSR - August 20, 2015 • Employment and Equity Advisory Committee (HRS)  - September 17, 2015 • Jax Oltean, University General Counsel - September 21, 2015 https://policiesonline.ualberta.ca/PoliciesProcedures/Procedures/Academic-Staff-Posting-and-Advertising-Procedure.pdf\nhttps://policiesonline.ualberta.ca/PoliciesProcedures/Procedures/Support-Staff-Posting-and-Advertising-Procedure.pdf\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\n• Mike MacGregor, Vice Provost and Associate Vice-President, Information Services and Technology - September 26, 2015 • Dr. Fraser Brenneis, Vice-Dean, Education, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry - December 23, 2016 • Dr. Lise Gotell, Acting Dean, Faculty of Arts - December 23, 2016 • Roger Graves, Director, Centre for Teaching and Learning - December 23, 2015 • Cody Bondarchuk, VP External, Students Union – February 8, 2016 • Harsh Thaker, Graduate Students Association – February 8, 2016 • Human Resource Services Team – March 7, 2016 • Vice-Provost Council – April 4, 2016 • Council on Aboriginal Initiatives - April 17, 2016 • Phyllis Clark, VP Finance and Administration – April 26, 2016 • President’s Executive Committee (Operations) - April 28, 2016 • Brad Hamdon, University General Counsel – April 29, 2016 • Committee on the Learning Environment - June 1, 2016 • Dean’s Council – June 1, 2016 • Academic standards committee  - May 19, 2016 – For review/advice • Employment and Equity Advisory Committee – August 9, 2016 Those who are actively participating: The Statement on Equity Working Group is responsible for the development of the University and Student Statements of Equity. The working group is composed of  Kris Wells, Chris Daberer, Institute for Sexual Minority Studies and Services Wade King, Office of Safe Disclosure and Human Rights Shana Dion, Aboriginal Student Services Centre Norma Rodenburg, Office of the Registrar Catherine Anley, Human Resource Services Approval Route (Governance) (including meeting dates) GFC Academic Standards Committee (recommendation) – September 15, 2016 GFC Academic Planning Committee (recommendation) - October 12, 2016 GFC Executive Committee - October 31, 2016 General Faculties Council - November 21, 2016 Final Approver General Faculties Council Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents For the Public Good Values: We value diversity, inclusivity, and equity across and among our people, campuses, and disciplines. GOAL: BUILD a diverse, inclusive community of exceptional students, faculty, and staff from Alberta, Canada, and the world. Objective 1: Build a diverse, inclusive community of exceptional undergraduate and graduate students from Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, and the world. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. The Alberta Human Rights Act: defines 13 grounds for protection of rights in five areas including employment practices, applications and ads (Preamble; Section 3(1)):  “WHEREAS it is recognized in Alberta as a fundamental principle and as a matter of public policy that all persons are equal in: dignity, rights and responsibilities without regard to race, religious beliefs, colour, gender, gender identity, gender expression, physical disability, mental disability, age, ancestry, place of origin, marital status, source of income, family status or sexual orientation;  Discrimination re publications, notices 3(1)  No person shall publish, issue or display or cause to be published, issued or displayed before the public any statement, publication, notice, sign, symbol, emblem or other representation that (a)    indicates discrimination or an intention to discriminate against a person or a class of persons, or (b)    is likely to expose a person or a class of persons to hatred or contempt because of the race, religious beliefs, colour, gender, gender identity, gender expression, physical disability, mental disability, age, ancestry, place of origin, marital status, source of income, family status or sexual orientation of that person or class of persons. 2. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The PSLA gives GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs (Section 26(1)). Further, the PSLA gives the Board of Governors authority over certain admission requirements and rules respecting enrolment (Sections 60(1)(c) and (d)). The Board has delegated its authority over admissions requirements and rules respecting enrolment to GFC. GFC has thus established an Academic Standards Committee (GFC ASC). 3. GFC Academic Standards Committee Terms of Reference (3. Mandate)  “The ASC is responsible for making recommendations and/or for providing advice to GFC, its Executive Committee, and/or the GFC Academic Planning Committee (APC) on the matters set out below, which include such areas as admissions and transfer, including admission and transfer to Faculties, admission of Open Studies students, academic standing policies and general university admission policies, and all institutional marking and grading policies and/or procedures.” […] “B. Admission and Transfer, Academic Standing, Marking and Grading, Term Work, Examinations, International Baccalaureate (IB), Advanced Placement (AP)  i. All proposals from the Faculties or the Administration related to admission and transfer, to the academic standing of students, to institutional marking and grading policies and/or procedures and to term work policies and procedures are submitted to the Provost and Vice-President (Academic) (or delegate) who chairs the GFC Academic Standards Committee. ASC will consult as necessary with the Faculties and with other individuals and offices in its consideration of these proposals. (GFC 29 SEP 2003) (GFC 31 MAY 2005) (EXEC 04 DEC 2006)  […]  v. ASC provides advice or recommends to APC on general University admission or transfer policies affecting students, including policies which affect Open Studies.” 4. GFC Academic Planning Committee Terms of Reference (3. Mandate) “7. Admission, Transfer and Academic Standing a. To consider advice or recommendation from the GFC ASC on proposals for the establishment of or change to general University admission or transfer policies affecting students, including policies affecting Open Studies students, and to act for GFC in approving policies which in APC’s view are minor or routine; and to recommend to GFC on proposals involving major change.” 5. GFC Executive Committee Terms of Reference  “5. Agendas of General Faculties Council  GFC has delegated to the Executive Committee the authority to decide which items are placed on a GFC Agenda, and the order in which those agenda items appear on each GFC agenda. […]  When recommendations are forwarded to General Faculties Council from APC, the role of the Executive shall be to decide the order in which items should be considered by GFC. The Executive Committee is responsible for providing general advice to the Chair about proposals being forwarded from APC to GFC.” 6. UAPPOL Admissions Policy Those responsible for admissions decisions will interpret and apply the established admission requirements and regulations, in a transparent process, in order to admit the best-qualified applicants from the total number of applicants who are eligible for admission, in accordance with Faculty enrolment targets or program quotas. The basis on which a student is admitted, and any academic provisions of admission, will not diminish or eliminate that student's rights and responsibilities, as detailed in the University Calendar. Attachments (each to be numbered 1 - 2) 1.  Attachment 1 (pages 1 - 2) Proposed Changes to Statement on Equity in Student Affairs ",
            "Approval Route": [
                "GFC Academic Standards Committee (recommendation) – September",
                "15, 2016",
                "GFC Academic Planning Committee (recommendation) - October 12,",
                "2016",
                "GFC Executive Committee - October 31, 2016",
                "General Faculties Council - November 21, 2016"
            ],
            "Final Approver": " General Faculties Council"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "11",
            "Agenda Title": "Proposed Changes to the University Equity Statement in the Academic Staff Posting and Advertising Procedure and the Support Staff Posting and Advertising Procedure ",
            "Date": "2016-11-21",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "Provost and Vice-President (Academic); and Vice-President (Finance and Administration ",
            "Presenter": " Wayne Patterson, Executive Director and Acting Associate Vice- President (Human Resources) ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) and Vice-President (Finance and Administration) The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) To revise the University Equity Statement to reflect changes to Alberta Human Rights Legislation and changing norms in diversity and equity within the academy. The Impact of the Proposal is The University Equity Statement is used on all academic and support staff job postings as outlined in the UAPPOL Procedures for Academic Staff Posting and Advertising and Support Staff Posting and Advertising. The statement would reflect the language commonly used in employment equity statements and includes the addition of gender expression and gender identity which are now protected grounds in legislation. References to designated groups identified in the Employment Equity Act have been removed as the groups identified are now broader and align with Alberta Human Rights legislation. The proposed changes align with the Statement on Equity in Student Affairs in the University Calendar. Replaces/Revises (eg, policies, resolutions) Revises the defined University Equity Statement to indicate the University Employment Equity Statement in the UAPPOL Academic Staff Posting and Advertising and Support Staff Posting and Advertising.  Timeline/Implementation Date Upon approval Estimated Cost and funding source N/A Next Steps (ie.: Communications Plan, Implementation plans) The University Employment Equity Statement and the University Territorial Statement will be included on the Human Resource Services website. Supplementary Notes and context Proposed changes to the Statement on Equity in Student Affairs in the University Calendar will go forward with this proposal to the GFC Executive Committee and General Faculties Council.  In 2011, the Board of Governors approved UAPPOL human resource policies and procedures to take effect July 1, 2011. At that time, the https://policiesonline.ualberta.ca/PoliciesProcedures/Procedures/Academic-Staff-Posting-and-Advertising-Procedure.pdf\nhttps://policiesonline.ualberta.ca/PoliciesProcedures/Procedures/Academic-Staff-Posting-and-Advertising-Procedure.pdf\nhttps://policiesonline.ualberta.ca/PoliciesProcedures/Procedures/Support-Staff-Posting-and-Advertising-Procedure.pdf\nhttps://policiesonline.ualberta.ca/PoliciesProcedures/Procedures/Support-Staff-Posting-and-Advertising-Procedure.pdf\nhttps://policiesonline.ualberta.ca/PoliciesProcedures/Procedures/Academic-Staff-Posting-and-Advertising-Procedure.pdf\nhttps://policiesonline.ualberta.ca/PoliciesProcedures/Procedures/Academic-Staff-Posting-and-Advertising-Procedure.pdf\nhttps://policiesonline.ualberta.ca/PoliciesProcedures/Procedures/Support-Staff-Posting-and-Advertising-Procedure.pdf\nBoard of Governors noted that, following approval, the respective Vice-\nPresidents would manage the procedures/procedural changes within the policy without having to return to the Board of Governors for ongoing approval. This authority has not been reflected in the documents to date; at this time, the proposal seeks to have this confirmed. In addition, the changes to the Equity Statement which align with current legislative requirements, are also an important statement of the University’s position and practice in this area. Work is currently being conducted to develop a more overarching University statement.  Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> Those who have been informed: • Jay Spark Vice-Provost & Associate VP (HR) and the Office of Faculty Relations - August 19, 2015 Those who have been consulted: • Heather Zwicker, Vice-Provost  Interim Dean, FGSR - August 20, 2015 • Employment and Equity Advisory Committee (HRS)  - September 17, 2015 • Jax Oltean, University General Counsel - September 21, 2015 • Mike MacGregor, Vice Provost and Associate Vice-President, Information Services and Technology - September 26, 2015 • Fraser Brenneis, Vice-Dean, Education, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry - December 23, 2016 • Lise Gotell, Acting Dean, Faculty of Arts - December 23, 2016 • Roger Graves, Director, Centre for Teaching and Learning - December 23, 2015 • Cody Bondarchuk, VP External, Students Union – February 8, 2016 • Harsh Thaker, Graduate Students Association – February 8, 2016 • Human Resource Services Team – March 7, 2016 • Vice-Provost Council – April 4, 2016 • Council on Aboriginal Initiatives - April 17, 2016 • Phyllis Clark, VP Finance and Administration – April 26, 2016 • President’s Executive Committee (Operations) - April 28, 2016 • Brad Hamdon, University General Counsel – April 29, 2016 • Committee on the Learning Environment - June 1, 2016 • Dean’s Council – June 1, 2016 • Academic standards committee  - May 19, 2016 – For review/advice • Employment and Equity Advisory Committee – August 9, 2016, September 23, 2016 • Jax Oltean, University General Counsel – September 30, 2016 Those who are actively participating: The Statement on Equity Working Group is responsible for the development of the University and Student Statements of Equity. The working group is composed of  http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nKris Wells, Chris Daberer, Institute for Sexual Minority Studies and Services Wade King, Office of Safe Disclosure and Human Rights Shana Dion, Aboriginal Student Services Centre Norma Rodenburg, Office of the Registrar Catherine Anley, Human Resource Services Approval Route (Governance) (including meeting dates) GFC Academic Planning Committee - October 12, 2016 GFC Executive Committee - October 31, 2016 General Faculties Council - November 21, 2016 Board Human Resources and Compensation Committee – November 14, 2016 Board of Governors – December 16, 2016 Final Approver Board of Governors Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents For the Public Good Values: We value diversity, inclusivity, and equity across and among our people, campuses, and disciplines. GOAL: BUILD a diverse, inclusive community of exceptional students, faculty, and staff from Alberta, Canada, and the world. Objective 1: Build a diverse, inclusive community of exceptional undergraduate and graduate students from Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, and the world. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. The Alberta Human Rights Act: defines 13 grounds for protection of rights in five areas including employment practices, applications and ads (Preamble; Section 3(1)):  “WHEREAS it is recognized in Alberta as a fundamental principle and as a matter of public policy that all persons are equal in: dignity, rights and responsibilities without regard to race, religious beliefs, colour, gender, gender identity, gender expression, physical disability, mental disability, age, ancestry, place of origin, marital status, source of income, family status or sexual orientation;  Discrimination re publications, notices 3(1)  No person shall publish, issue or display or cause to be published, issued or displayed before the public any statement, publication, notice, sign, symbol, emblem or other representation that (a)    indicates discrimination or an intention to discriminate against a person or a class of persons, or (b)    is likely to expose a person or a class of persons to hatred or contempt because of the race, religious beliefs, colour, gender, gender identity, gender expression, physical disability, mental disability, age, ancestry, place of origin, marital status, source of income, family status or sexual orientation of that person or class of persons. 2. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA):  “Powers of general faculties council 26.(1) Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council is responsible for the academic affairs of the university and, without restricting the generality of the foregoing, has the authority to […] (o) make recommendations to the board with respect to […] procedures in respect of appointments, promotions, salaries, tenure and dismissals” 4. GFC Academic Planning Committee Terms of Reference (3. Mandate) “The Academic Planning Committee (APC) is GFC’s senior committee dealing with academic, financial and planning issues” “15. Other  a. To recommend to the Board of Governors and/or GFC on any other matter deemed by APC to be within the purview of its general responsibility.” 5. GFC Executive Committee Terms of Reference  “5. Agendas of General Faculties Council  GFC has delegated to the Executive Committee the authority to decide which items are placed on a GFC Agenda, and the order in which those agenda items appear on each GFC agenda. […]  When recommendations are forwarded to General Faculties Council from APC, the role of the Executive shall be to decide the order in which items should be considered by GFC. The Executive Committee is responsible for providing general advice to the Chair about proposals being forwarded from APC to GFC.” 6. Board Human Resources and Compensation Committee (BHRCC) Terms of Reference:  “3. MANDATE OF THE COMMITTEE  Except as provided in paragraph 4 and in the Board's General Committee Terms of Reference, the Committee shall monitor, evaluate, advise and make decisions on behalf of the Board with respect to, and the Board delegates to the Committee responsibility and authority for, all policies and procedures affecting staff working conditions at the University and matters for collective bargaining and related service contracts. The Committee shall also consider any other matter delegated to the Committee by the Board.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing the Committee shall: (…) (g) review and approve material changes to personnel policies of the University that are outside the regular collective bargaining process and consider trends affecting such policies; Attachments (each to be numbered 1 - 2) 1. Attachment 1 (pages 1-4): Proposed Amendments to the Academic Staff Posting and Advertising Procedure in UAPPOL 2. Attachment 2 (pages 1-4): Proposed Amendments to the Support Staff Posting and Advertising Procedure in UAPPOL ",
            "Approval Route": [
                "GFC Academic Planning Committee - October 12, 2016",
                "GFC Executive Committee - October 31, 2016",
                "General Faculties Council - November 21, 2016",
                "Board Human Resources and Compensation Committee – November",
                "14, 2016",
                "Board of Governors – December 16, 2016"
            ],
            "Final Approver": " Board of Governors"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "13",
            "Agenda Title": "General Faculties Council Standing Committee Report Executive Committee",
            "Date": "2016-11-21",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "N/A",
            "Presenter": "N/A",
            "Description": "1. Since the last GFC meeting, the Executive Committee met on October 17 and October 31, 2016. 2. Actions Taken with Delegated Authority from GFC October 17, 2016 Approved  revision to the Parchment for the Joint Shared Credential graduate Programs Universidade Estadual de Campinas (Unicamp), Brazil and University of Alberta (Faculty of Graduate Studies and Faculty of Science) to remove Master of Science  Approved the Renumbering AGRMT 900 to AGRMT 903 (within the same level), Faculty of Graduate Studies and Research October 31, 2016 Recommended  to GFC - Guiding Principles of the GFC ad hoc Committee on Academic Governance including Delegated Authority   Recommended  to GFC - Proposed Changes to the Statement on Equity in Student Affairs Recommended  to GFC - Proposed Changes to the University Equity Statement in the Academic Staff Posting and Advertising Procedure and the Support Staff Posting and Advertising Procedure Approved   the 2017-18 Academic Schedule Approved the GFC agenda for November 21, 2016 meeting Detailed motion and final document summary: http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/ExecutiveCommittee/ExecutiveMotionandFinalDocument\nSummary.aspx 3. Items that the Committee Discussed or Advised on  October 17, 2016 For the Public Good: Preliminary Recommendations for Performance Indicators  Sustainability Plan 2016-2020 October 31, 2016 General Appeals Committee (GAC) Annual Report to General Faculties Council  Annual Report of the Residence Discipline Statistics: 2015-2016  Undergraduate National Recruitment Strategy and Annual Report on Undergraduate Financial Supports Terms of reference and records of meetings for this committee can be found at: http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/ExecutiveCommittee.aspx ",
            "Approval Route": "N/A",
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "14",
            "Agenda Title": "General Faculties Council Standing Committee Report Academic Planning Committee",
            "Date": "2016-11-21",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "N/A",
            "Presenter": "N/A",
            "Description": "1. Since the last GFC meeting, the Academic Planning Committee met on September 28, October 12, October 26, and November 16, 2016.  2. Actions Taken with Delegated Authority from GFC October 26,  2016 Recommended  Proposed changes to the Statement of Equity in Student Affairs  Recommended  Proposed Changes to the University Equity Statement in Academic and Support Staff posting and advertising procedures  Approved  Proposal from the Department of Biological Sciences, Faculty of Science, to change the names of three programs: Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology (newly proposed name for Ecology); Integrative Physiology (newly proposed name for Physiology and Developmental Biology); and Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology (newly proposed name for Molecular Genetics)  November 16, 2016 (Committee report will be included with the January 30, 2017 GFC agenda materials) Detailed motion and final document summary: http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/AcademicPlanningCommittee/APCMotion 3. Items the Committee Discussed or Advised on  September 28, 2016 For the Public Good – Update  Update on the Budget  Proposed Use of Copyright Materials Procedure  Quality Assurance Process at the University of Alberta  University of Alberta Sustainability Plan 2016-2020 October 12, 2016 Update on the Budget  For the Public Good: Preliminary Recommendations for Performance Indicators  Annual Report on Undergraduate Financial Support October 26, 2016 Update on the Budget President’s Visiting Committee (PVC): Summary of Review for the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry Undergraduate National Recruitment Strategy and Key Performance Indicators and Measures 4. Items the Committee Received for Information September 28, 2016 Minor revision to residency status for the Dual Degree Graduate Program (MSc and PhD),  University of Alberta (Faculty of Graduate Studies and Research and Faculty of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences) and Universidade de Sao Paulo, Brazil (USP) approved April 2016 http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/AcademicPlanningCommittee/APCMotion\nTerms of reference and records of meeting for this committee can be found at: http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/AcademicPlanningCommittee.aspx ",
            "Approval Route": "N/A",
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "15",
            "Agenda Title": "General Faculties Council Standing Committee Report Academic Standing Committee",
            "Date": "2016-11-21",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "N/A",
            "Presenter": "N/A",
            "Description": "1. Since the last GFC meeting, the Academic Standing Committee met on October 20, November 17, 2016.  2. Actions Taken with Delegated Authority from GFC October 20, 2016 Approved  Office of the Registrar: Proposed Approval of Transfer Credit for October 2016 Approved  Faculty of Arts: Proposed Changes to Existing Admission Requirements Approved  Faculty of Arts: Proposed Changes to Existing Transfer and Admission Requirements Approved  Faculty of Arts: Proposed Changes to Existing Requirements for Major and Minor in Art and Design Approved  Proposal from the Department of Biological Sciences, Faculty of Science, to suspend admission to four honors/specialization programs: Animal Biology, Evolutionary Biology, Microbiology, and Plant Biology Approved  Faculty of Graduate Studies and Research: Proposed changes to Existing Admission and Academic Standing Requirements, Master of Science program, Department of Physical Therapy Approved  Proposed Changes to Admission and Academic Regulations, BSc Program in Medical Laboratory Science, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry Approved  Proposed Changes to Admission and Academic Regulations, Radiation Therapy Program, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry Recommended - Proposed Changes to the University Bloodborne pathogens policy in the University Calendar November 17, 2016 (Committee report will be included with the January 30, 2017 GFC agenda materials) 3. Items the Committee received for information October 20, 2016 External Programs for Review and Programs in Progress on Campus Detailed motion and final document summary: http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/AcademicStandardsCommittee/ASCMotionandFinalDocume\nntSummary.aspx  Terms of reference and records of meeting for this committee can be found at: http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/AcademicStandardsCommittee.aspx ",
            "Approval Route": "N/A",
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "16",
            "Agenda Title": "Annual Report of the Residence Discipline Statistics: 2015-2016 ",
            "Date": "2016-11-21",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "André Costopolos, Vice-Provost and Dean of Students ",
            "Presenter": " Craig Whitton, Residence Area Coordinator – Residence Services; Aman Litt, Assistant Dean of Students, Residence Life (Acting) ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) To report on the discipline statistics from the University residences for the 2015-16 academic year. Timeline/Implementation Date May 1, 2015 to August 31, 2016 Supplementary Notes and context For information Engagement and Routing GFC CLRC - September 22, 2016 Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> Those who have been informed: • Resident students • Residence Services • Vice President, Facilities and Operations • GFC Campus Law Review Committee – September 22, 2016 • University of Alberta Protective Services (UAPS) • GFC Executive Committee – October 17, 2016 • General Faculties Council – November 21, 2016 (information report) Those who have been consulted: • Sarah Wolgemuth, Assistant Dean, Student Life • Residence Services • Ancillary Services • Doug Dawson, Associate Vice President, Ancillary Services Those who are actively participating: Restorative Justice • Residence Life Staff and Student Staff • Sarah Wolgemuth during her role as Assistant Dean of Student, Residence Life • Aman Litt, Acting Assistant Dean of Student, Residence Life • Craig Whitton, Residence Area Coordinator • Salwa Kramps, Residence Life Administrative Assistant Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents For the Public Good, Institutional Values  Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The PSLA give GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs and over student affairs, including authority concerning student discipline. (Sections 26(1) and 31) In addition, Section 26(1)(o) states GFC “has the authority to make recommendations to the board with respect to […] the regulation of residences and dining halls[.][…]”  PSLA Section 31(1) – Student Affairs states “The general faculties http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\ncouncil has general supervision of student affairs at a university and in particular, but without restricting the generality, the general faculties council may […] (b) delegate its power to discipline students in any particular case or generally to any person or body of persons, subject to any conditions with respect to the exercise of any delegated power that it considers proper [.] […]”  2. GFC Campus Law Review Committee Terms of Reference: “Residence Discipline Reports: To receive annually reports from the student residence associations on the number and disposition of discipline cases in the residences, and forward the reports to the GFC Executive Committee. Any student residence with a code or similar set of regulations is required to report annually on the operation of that code to General Faculties Council through its Campus Law Review Committee and its Executive Committee.” Attachment: (Pages 1-2): Annual Report of the Residence Discipline Statistics  ",
            "Approval Route": "N/A",
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "19b",
            "Agenda Title": "General Appeals Committee (GAC) Annual Report to General Faculties Council (July 1, 2015 – June 30, 2016) ",
            "Date": "2016-11-21",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "David Johnson, Special Advisor, Faculty and Staff Relations ",
            "Presenter": " David Johnson, Special Advisor, Faculty and Staff Relations ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) To comply with GFC-legislated reporting requirements Timeline/Implementation Date N/A Supplementary Notes and context For information Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> Those who have been informed: • GFC Executive Committee – October 31, 2016 • General Faculties Council – November 21, 2016 Those who have been consulted: • N/A Those who are actively participating: • N/A Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents For the Public Good  GOAL:  EXCEL as individuals, and together, sustain a culture that fosters and champions distinction and distinctiveness in teaching, learning, research, and service. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) gives GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs (Section 26(1). 2. GFC Policy Manual: GFC requests that the GAC report annually to Council (Section 56.2 (General Appeals Committee) of the GFC Policy Manual). The GAC is a committee established under Section 15 of the Board/AASUA Agreement (Faculty) and, until 1977, was a GFC committee. Currently, it is one of several non-GFC committees requested to provide an annual report to GFC. GFC requests that the report include a statistical summary of cases and their dispositions and protect the confidentiality of individual cases. 3. GFC Terms of Reference (GFC Procedures (GFC Agendas) (Reports)):  “Reports not requiring action by GFC will be discussed by the Executive Committee (with committee chairs in attendance) and placed on the GFC agenda for information. If a GFC member has a http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nquestion about a report, or feels that the report should be discussed by GFC, the GFC member should notify the Secretary to GFC, in writing, two business days or more before GFC meets so that the committee chair can be invited to attend. Such reports will be discussed as the last of the standing items.” (Section 4.a.) Attachments 1. Attachment 1 (pages 1 – 4): General Appeals Committee (GAC) Annual Report to General Faculties Council (July 1, 2015 – June 30, 2016) ",
            "Approval Route": "N/A",
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        }
    ],
    "PDF url": "GFC_Monday, November 21, 2016 \n_Material.pdf"
}