{
    "Committee": "GFC",
    "Date": "2016-05-30",
    "Title": "GFC General Faculties Council - 2016-05-30",
    "Location": "Council Chamber, University Hall",
    "Time": "2:00 PM-4:00 PM",
    "Attendees": [
        "David Turpin Chair, President and Chair, Statutory",
        "Chris Andersen Member, Dean, Native Studies (Interim), Statutory",
        "Susan Andrew Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Katherine Aitchison Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Lorne Babiuk Member, Vice-President (Research), Statutory",
        "Marina Banister Member, Student Nominated by UG Council of Students, V-P Academic",
        "(SU)",
        "Howard Bashaw Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Darcy Bemister Member, Graduate Student at-Large",
        "Allen Berger Member, Dean, Augustana Faculty, Statutory",
        "Stanford Blade Member, Dean, Agricultural, Life and Environmental Sciences, Statutory",
        "Michelle Borowitz Member, Graduate Student at-Large",
        "Sylvia Brown Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Heather Bruce Member, AASUA President and Additional Appointee",
        "Deborah Burshtyn Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Sean Caulfield Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Alicia Cappello Member, Graduate Student at-Large",
        "Colin Champagne Member, Board of Governors Representative",
        "Shreyak Chaplot Member, Graduate Student at-Large",
        "Phyllis Clark Member, Vice-President (Finance & Administration), Statutory",
        "Kathleen DeLong Member, University Library Academic Staff",
        "Benjamin Denga Member, Graduate Student at-Large",
        "Steven Dew Member, Provost and Vice-President (Academic), Statutory",
        "Francesca El Ghossein Member, Student Nominated by UG Council of Students, VP Student Life",
        "Tarek El-Bialy Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Duncan Elliott Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Shannon Erichsen Member, Non-Academic Staff (Nominated by NASA)",
        "Robin Everall Member, Interim Vice-Provost and Dean of Students",
        "Richard N Fedorak Member, Dean, Medicine and Dentistry (Interim), Statutory",
        "Sarah Ficko Member, Board of Governors Representative, President (Graduate",
        "Students' Association)",
        "Kyle Foster Member, Graduate Student at-Large",
        "Kim Frail Member, University Library Academic Staff",
        "Meor M Hakeem Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Shumaila Hemani Member, Graduate Student at-Large",
        "Don Hickey Member, Vice-President (Facilities and Operations), Statutory",
        "Calvin Howard Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Jennifer Jay Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "GFC General Faculties Council 05/30/2016",
        "Page 2",
        "Michal Juhas Member, Graduate Student at-Large",
        "Maryam Kebbe Member, Graduate Student at-Large",
        "James Kehrer Member, Dean, Pharmacy & Pharmaceutical Sciences, Statutory",
        "Firouz Khodayari Member, Student Nominated by GSA Council of Students, V-P Academic",
        "(GSA)",
        "Maryse Ndilu Kiese Member, Graduate Student at-Large",
        "Alex Kwan Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Reed Larsen Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Cerina Lee Member, Graduate Student at-Large",
        "Bernard Lemire Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Wei Liu Member, Non-Academic Staff (Nominated by NASA)",
        "Kathleen Lowrey Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Godfrey Man Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Brian Maraj Member, St Joseph’s College",
        "Pamela Mayne Correia Member, Academic Staff (FSO), FSO (Academic Staff Representative)",
        "Heather McCaw Member, Vice-President (Advancement), Statutory",
        "Lisa McDermott Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Laurie Mereu Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Pierre-Yves Mocquais Member, Dean, Faculté Saint-Jean & Executive Officer of Campus Saint-",
        "Jean, Statutory",
        "Anita Molzahn Member, Dean, Nursing, Statutory",
        "Dorsa Nahid Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Steve Patten Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Carla Peck Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Andrea Smith(Delegate) Member, Vice-President (University Relations), Statutory",
        "Fahim Rahman Member, Board of Governors Representative, President (Students'",
        "Union)",
        "Sandra Rein Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Jeremy Richards Member, Board of Governors Representative, GFC Appointee",
        "Carolyn Sale Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Kim Solez Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Terry Sperling Member, Academic Staff (APO), APO (Academic Staff Representative)",
        "Marcia Spetch Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Sarah Stahlke Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Eleni Stroulia Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Henry Su Member, Undergraduate Student Member",
        "Bruce Sutherland Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Mirko van der Baan Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Dilini Vethanayagam Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Bonnie Watt Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Jonathan White Member, Statutory Academic Staff",
        "Brayden Whitlock Member, Graduate Student at-Large",
        "Kue Young Member, Dean, Public Health, Statutory",
        "David Turpin President and Chair, General Faculties Council (GFC)",
        "Steven Dew Provost and Vice-President (Academic)",
        "Lorne Babiuk Vice-President (Research)",
        "Joseph Doucet Dean, Alberta School of Business",
        "Elaine Geddes Associate Dean, Alberta School of Business",
        "Nat Kav Vice-Provost (Programs) and Chair, GFC Academic Standards Committee",
        "GFC General Faculties Council 05/30/2016",
        "Page 3",
        "Richard Fedorak Interim Dean, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry",
        "David Zygun Divisional Director, Critical Care Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry",
        "Wendy Rodgers Deputy Provost",
        "Allen Berger Dean, Augustana Faculty",
        "Karsten Mundel Associate Dean, Augustana Faculty",
        "Martin Ferguson-Pell Vice-Principal, Peter Lougheed Leadership College (PLLC)",
        "Duncan Elliott Member, GFC Executive Committee and Co-Chair, Academic Governance",
        "Working Group",
        "Mirko van der Baan Member, GFC Executive Committee and Co-Chair, Academic Governance",
        "Working Group",
        "Deborah Burshtyn Associate Dean, Faculty of Graduate Studies and Research",
        "Sarah Forgie Vice-Provost (Learning Initiatives) and Chair, GFC Committee on the Learning",
        "Environment",
        "Meg Brolley, GFC Secretary and Manager of GFC Services"
    ],
    "Items": [
        {
            "Item No.": "3",
            "Agenda Title": "Institutional Strategic Plan: For the Public Good ",
            "Motion": " THAT General Faculties Council recommend that the Board of Governors approve the Institutional Strategic Plan: For the Public Good, as set forth in Attachment 1 to be effective upon approval, and empower administration to make any editorial changes to the plan, as needed, as long as the changes do not have the force of policy. ",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2016-05-30",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "David H. Turpin, President, and Steven Dew, Provost and Vice-President (Academic) ",
            "Presenter": " David H. Turpin, President, and Steven Dew, Provost and Vice-President (Academic) Subject Institutional Strategic Plan: For the Public Good ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) and Vice-President (Research) The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) To clarify when the staff member owns copyright, and when the University owns copyright. The Impact of the Proposal is To update and revise the language in Article 10 related to copyright in the various academic collective agreements (APO Agreement, Faculty Agreement, FSO Agreement, Librarian Agreement, CAST Agreement, SOTS Agreement, TRAS Agreement). Replaces/Revises (eg, policies, resolutions) Article 10 in the various Academic Staff Agreements. Timeline/Implementation Date July 1, 2016 Estimated Cost N/A Sources of Funding N/A Notes The rules regarding copyright created by academic staff at the University are based on two documents; the Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) and the collective agreements between the Board and the AASUA.   The PSLA states: Intellectual Property 68(1) Unless otherwise agreed to by the board, the ownership of any invention, work, information or material, regardless of form, including any patent, copyright, technological or industrial design process or trademark acquired or produced by an officer of the post-secondary institution or an employee of the board that results from or is connected with the officer’s or employee’s duties or employment vests in the board and may be made available to the public under conditions, on payment of fees or royalties or otherwise, as the board may determine. The collective agreements between the Board of Governors and AASUA have contained Copyright Regulations (as Articles and/or Appendices) since 1977.  Over the years, there has been a significant amount of confusion when the parties have attempted to interpret the Copyright Regulations as it is not clear from the language when the University would own copyright and when it would be owned by the staff member.  The generally accepted practice (although not strictly based on the language) has been to acknowledge that academic staff own the copyright in their teaching materials, but the University has some sort of limited license to use that material. In 2010, the University of Alberta and the AASUA agreed to form an “Agreement Review Committee” that would examine two aspects of intellectual property: a) copyright and b) the emerging issue of intellectual property that is not covered by patent or copyright practices.  The ARC that was created has focused solely on the first issue - copyright.  This ARC has been meeting regularly since and has developed proposed new Copyright Regulations which would replace the existing regulations in their entirety.  The ARC believes that the new language creates greater certainty as it relates to copyright ownership and use.   The key elements of the proposed new Regulations include: 1.    Clear ownership by academic staff of copyright in works they create as a result of or connected with their duties or employment. 2.    An immediate, non-exclusive, royalty-free, non-transferable and irrevocable license to the University to use these works for purposes related to its approved mandate. 3.    A more limited license to the University to use a staff member’s detailed teaching materials, for example if the staff member is unable or unavailable to deliver all or part of a course assigned to that staff member during that academic year. 4.    Ownership by the University of copyright of works created by a staff member in the course of performing administrative or management duties or activities.   5.     A clear statement that a staff member’s copyright in works created as part of a sponsored research agreement is governed by the terms of that agreement.  This gives the University the right to alter copyright ownership in a sponsored research agreement, the way it is currently able to be done for Patentable Intellectual Property. *It is important to note that the proposed Regulations deal with copyright that is created by a University of Alberta academic staff member in performing his employment duties.  It does not apply to the use by the University of copyright materials from other sources (textbooks, library books, online sources, etc).  There is a separate policy suite being drafted that deals with such issues. Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents Dare to Discover, Dare to Deliver, Comprehensive Institutional Plan,  academic collective agreements Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1.  Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA):  Alberta’s Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) gives the Board of Governors the authority to “develop, manage and operate, alone or in co-operation with any person or organization, programs, services and facilities for the educational or cultural advancement of the people of Alberta” (Section 60(1)).  Further, the Board of Governors “must consider the recommendations of the general faculties council, if any, on matters of academic import prior to providing for […] any other activities the board considers necessary or advantageous”  (Section 19(e)). 2.  Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA):  Section 26(1) states that, “[s]ubject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council is responsible for the academic affairs of the university and, without restricting the generality of the foregoing, has the authority to […] (o) make recommendations to the board with respect to affiliation with other institutions, academic planning, campus planning, a building program, the budget, the regulation of residences and dining halls, procedures in respect of appointments, promotions, salaries, tenure and dismissals, and any other matters considered by the general faculties council to be of interest to the university […].” Further, the PSLA, states in Section 31(1) that “[t]he general faculties council has general supervision of student affairs at a university […].” 3. GFC Committee on the Learning Environment Terms of Reference (3. Mandate of the Committee) “The Committee on the Learning Environment is responsible for making recommendations concerning policy matters and action matters with respect to the following: […] b) To review and, as necessary, recommend to the GFC Academic Planning Committee or the GFC Executive Committee policies on teaching, learning, teaching evaluation, and recognition for teaching that promote the University’s Academic Plan. […] i) To consider any matter deemed by the GFC Committee on the Learning Environment to be within the purview of its general responsibility.” 4. GFC Academic Planning Committee Terms of Reference (3. Mandate of the Committee) “The Academic Planning Committee (APC) is GFC’s senior committee dealing with academic, financial and planning issues. As such, it is not only responsible to GFC (or the Board) for the specific matters itemized below, but may also ask to consider or recommend to GFC on any academic issue, including: 1) those issues under the purview of other GFC committees, 2) any academic issue related to restructuring, 3) any research-related issue, or 4) issues linked to academic service units where those issues have a significant academic impact. In like manner, the President, Provost and Vice-President (academic) or other Vice-\nPresidents may refer any matter to APC for consideration or recommendation to GFC. APC is also responsible to GFC for promoting an optimal learning environment for students and excellence in teaching, research, and graduate studies. (GFC 29 SEP 2003)” 5. GFC Executive Committee Terms of Reference (3. Mandate of the Committee) “5. Agendas of General Faculties Council GFC has delegated to the Executive Committee the authority to decide which items are placed on a GFC Agenda, and the order in which those agenda items appear on each GFC agenda. […] When recommendations are forwarded to General Faculties Council from APC, the role of the Executive shall be to decide the order in which items should be considered by GFC. The Executive Committee is responsible for providing general advice to the Chari about proposals being forwarded from APC to GFC.” 6.  Board Learning and Discovery Committee Terms of Reference (3. Mandate of the Committee) “Except as provided in paragraph 4 hereof and in the Board’s General Committee Terms of Reference, the Committee shall, in accordance with the Committee’s responsibilities with powers granted under the Post-\nSecondary Learning Act, monitor, evaluate, advise and make decisions on behalf of the Board with respect to matters concerning the teaching and research affairs of the University, including proposals coming from the administration and from General Faculties Council (the “GFC”), and shall consider future educational expectations and challenges to be faced by the University.  The Committee shall also include any other matter delegated to the Committee by the Board. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing the Committee shall: a. review and approve initiatives related to the overall academic mission and related plans and policies of the University; b. review, provide feedback and approve teaching and research policies[.] […]” 7. Board Human Resources and Compensation Committee (3. Mandate of the Committee) “Except as provided in paragraph 4 and in the Board’s General Committee Terms of Reference, the Committee shall monitor, evaluate, advise and make decisions on behalf of the Board with respect to, and the Board delegates to the Committee responsibility and authority for, all policies and procedures affecting staff working condition sat the University and matters for collective bargaining and related service contracts. The Committee shall also consider any other matter delegated to the Committee by the Board. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing the Committee shall:  (a) consider and propose changes in collective agreements and confirm the mandate for negotiating committees with all bargaining units;[…] (g) review and approve material changes to personnel policies of the University that are outside the regular collective bargaining process and consider trends affecting such policies;” Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) • Those who have been informed • Those who have been consulted • Those who are actively participating The Agreement Review Committee (ARC) on Copyright Regulations has met regularly since 2010, and both parties have also had numerous internal meetings.  The composition of the ARC’s membership has changed significantly over time; the Vice-President (Research) has been a member from the beginning, as has Geoffrey Rockwell (Department of Philosophy). They have provided important continuity to the discussions over the past six years. During 2010, before detailed discussions began, a review of the copyright regulations of some of the University’s peer institutions in Canada (McGill, UBC, University of Toronto) and the US (University of Wisconsin, University of Michigan, Penn State) was carried out.  This provided important context for the discussion about possible changes to the University’s copyright regulations. While significant work was done by email between meetings, the ARC met face to face on the following dates: December 20, 2010; February 16, 2011; February 28, 2011; April 1, 2011; April 26, 2011; December 19, 2011; February 14, 2012; October 26, 2012; May 14, 2013; June 19, 2013; October 28, 2013; September 5, 2014; October 17, 2014; and December 11, 2014. A significant portion of 2015 was taken up with finalizing the wording of the Copyright Regulations as well as drafting and finalizing a series of Frequently Asked Questions which will be posted on the AASUA website following the approval of the new Copyright Regulations. The Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) was signed on February 26, 2016. There will be a parallel approval process, involving both the AASUA membership as well as GFC/Board.  The approval route noted below is for GFC/Board, which is the responsibility of administration. Approval Route (Governance) (including meeting dates) GFC Committee on the Learning Environment (for recommendation) – April 6, 2016 GFC Academic Planning Committee (for recommendation) – April 20, 2016 GFC Executive Committee – May 16, 2016 General Faculties Council – May 30, 2016 Board Human Resources and Compensation Committee – May 31, 2016 Board Learning and Discovery Committee – June 2, 2016 Board of Governors – June 17, 2016 Final Approver Board of Governors Attachments (each to be numbered 1 - <>) 1.  Attachment 1 (page(s) 1 - 27) Memorandum of Agreement, signed by the AASUA and University  administration on February 26, 2016 2.  Attachment 2 (page(s) 1 - 7) Frequently Asked Questions Concerning the New Copyright Regulations,  developed by the AASUA and University administration, dated March 5, 2016 ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "• Those who have been ",
                "informed ",
                "• Those who have been ",
                "consulted ",
                "• Those who are actively ",
                "participating ",
                "Broad participation has been sought across the campus over an 8-month ",
                "period. ",
                "-A record of the consultation process and the community feedback can ",
                "be found online:  https://uofa.ualberta.ca/strategic-plan ",
                "-Two rounds of consultation have been completed in the 2015-16 ",
                "academic year: ",
                "- Discussion paper consultation (September to February): 33 ",
                "consultations with 860 participants ",
                "- Draft plan consultation (February to April): 36 consultations, ",
                "1010 participants ",
                "- Consultations included: Campus Forums, Roundtable ",
                "Discussions, General Faculties Council, GFC Academic Planning ",
                "Committee, GFC Academic Standards Committee, GFC ",
                "Committee on the Learning Environment, Board Learning and ",
                "Discovery Committee, Board University Relations Committee, ",
                "Deans’ Council, Chairs’ Council, University Research Policy ",
                "Committee, Students’ Union and Council of Faculty Associations, ",
                "Graduate Students’ Association Executive and Board, Alumni ",
                "Council, Senate and Faculty Councils "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "GFC Academic Planning Committee (May 11, 2016)",
                "General Faculties Council (May 30, 2016)",
                "Board Learning and Discovery Committee (June 2, 2016)",
                "Board of Governors (June 17, 2016)"
            ],
            "Final Approver": " Board of Governors"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "6",
            "Agenda Title": "Proposal for an Embedded Credit Certificate in Interdisciplinary Leadership Studies, Faculty of Business ",
            "Motion": " THAT General Faculties Council, on the recommendation of the GFC Academic Standards Committee, approve the Embedded Credit Certificate in Interdisciplinary Leadership Studies, as submitted by the Faculty of Business, and as set forth in Attachment 1, to be effective upon approval. ",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2016-05-30",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "Elaine F. Geddes, Associate Dean, Undergraduate Programs, Faculty of Business ",
            "Presenter": " Joseph Doucet, Dean, Faculty of Business; Elaine F. Geddes, Associate Dean, Undergraduate Programs, Faculty of Business; Nat Kav, Chair, GFC Academic Standards Committee Subject Proposed Embedded Certificate in Interdisciplinary Leadership Studies ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) The Certificate in Interdisciplinary Leadership Studies will provide students with formal recognition of the leadership skills they have acquired through their coursework and through their experiences at the PLLC. The certificate will indicate to employers and graduate schools that the students have taken courses, have participated in co-curricular programs, and have had stretch experiences through which they have developed the ability to tackle the challenges of leadership in all aspects of their lives. It will be available to students in multiple Faculties. An Inaugural Class was recruited in 2015 and began their studies in September 2015 with the courses INT D 301 and INT D 306. If the Certificate is approved, these students and students in subsequent classes will be awarded the Certificate upon completion of the required coursework and the stretch experience. The Impact of the Proposal is PLLC will create opportunities for learning that will develop leadership skills and competences through enhanced formal and co-curricular programs, experiential learning, engagement with a wide range of leadership styles, commitment to ethical behaviour and social responsibility, and with access to excellence in mentorship. Replaces/Revises (eg, policies, resolutions) N/A Timeline/Implementation Date Upon approval Estimated Cost Funding to support the Certificate and related activities is in place, and no funding will be diverted from other University of Alberta sources. Sources of Funding The Peter Lougheed Leadership College is supported by dedicated Government of Alberta funding and by private donors. Notes It was noted by the GFC Academic Standards Committee that Faculty requirements may preclude certain students (such as those with practicum experiences, university athletes, etc)  from participating in the certificate due to the scheduling of courses; consideration will be given to how these students can be accommodated in the future.  Also at the GFC Academic Standards Committee meeting, it was suggested that the last sentence of the course descriptions be revised to increase clarity including who is eligible to take the course and what Faculty is offering it. INT D 407 reflects this change and is currently in circulation in accordance with GFC Policy 37. The remaining three courses will follow GFC policy on course changes to reflect similar wording.  Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents Dare to Discover, Dare to Deliver. This program supports the vision of the University of Alberta in Dare to Deliver to build a university for the public good. The Certificate in Interdisciplinary Leadership Studies will also help to realize the vision of the new Institutional Strategic Plan. It will help to build a diverse, inclusive community of exceptional students, faculty and staff from Alberta, Canada and the world. These students will be able to experience diverse and rewarding learning opportunities, excel as individuals, and together, sustain a culture that fosters and champions distinction and distinctiveness in teaching, learning, research, and service. The Certificate will help students engage with communities across campuses, the province, Canada and the world to create reciprocal, mutually beneficial learning experiences, research projects, partnerships, and collaborations. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The PSLA gives GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs. Further, the PSLA gives the Board of Governors authority over certain admission requirements and rules respecting enrolment. The Board has delegated its authority over admissions requirements and rules respecting enrolment to GFC and the GFC ASC. (Sections 26(1), 60(1)(c) and (d)). 2. GFC Academic Standards Committee (ASC) Terms of Reference (3. Mandate of the Committee): “G. Certificates (All Faculties): Approval Route GFC delegated to ASC the authority to approve proposals for the establishment of and termination of credit and non-credit certificates, regardless of the proposing academic unit. Where additional funding and/or space is required to support the offering of the proposed certificate and/or if, in the opinion of the Provost and Vice-President (Academic) (or delegate), the certificate requires Government approval, ASC would provide a recommendation on the (proposed) initiative to the GFC Academic Planning Committee (APC). (GFC 31 MAY 2005) (EXEC 12 JAN 2009)” 3. PSLA: The PSLA gives Faculty Councils power to “provide for the admission of students to the faculty” (29(1)(c)). 4. UAPPOL Admissions Policy: “Admission to the University of Alberta is based on documented academic criteria established by individual Faculties and approved by GFC. This criteria may be defined in areas such as subject requirements, minimum entrance averages, and language proficiency requirements. In addition to academic requirements for admission, GFC authorizes each Faculty to establish such other reasonable criteria for admission of applicants as the Faculty may consider appropriate to its programs of study, subject to the approval of GFC (e.g. interview, audition, portfolio, etc.) The admission requirements for any Faculty will be those approved by GFC as set forth in the current edition of the University Calendar. In addition to the admission requirements, selection criteria for quota programs, where they exist, will also be published in the current edition of the University Calendar. The responsibility for admission decisions will be vested in the Faculty Admission Committees or in the Deans of the respective Faculties, as the councils of such Faculties will determine.” 5. UAPPOL Admissions Procedure: “PROCEDURE 1. EFFECTIVE DATE OF CHANGES TO ADMISSION REGULATIONS Following approval by GFC: a. Where changes to admission regulations may disadvantage students in the current admission cycle, normally implementation will be effective after the change has been published in the University Calendar for one full year (i.e., effective the second year that the information is published in the University Calendar). For example, a change approved in May 2005 would be first published in the 2006-2007 University Calendar in March 2006. Therefore the statement cannot come into effect until September 2007 (affecting applicants who apply for the September 2007 term beginning July 2006). b. Where changes to admission regulations are deemed by the approving body to be ‘advantageous to students’, normally the date of implementation will be effective immediately or at the next available intake for the admitting Faculty.” 6. PSLA: The PSLA gives Faculty Councils the authority to “determine the conditions under which a student must withdraw from or may continue the student’s program of studies in a faculty” (Section 29(1)(d)). 7. UAPPOL Academic Standing Policy: “All current academic standing  regulations, including academic standing categories, University graduating standards and requirements for all individual programs will be those prescribed by Faculty Councils and GFC as set forth in the University Calendar.” 8. UAPPOL Academic Standing Regulations Procedures: “All proposed new academic standing regulations and changes to existing academic standing regulations will be submitted by the Faculties or the Administration to the Provost and Vice-President (Academic). Faculties will also submit to the Provost and Vice-President (Academic) any proposed changes to the use and/or computation of averages relating to academic standing, including promotion and graduation. If the Provost and Vice-President (Academic) determines the proposal to be in good order, the proposal will be introduced to the appropriate University governance process(es). In considering these proposals, governance bodies will consult as necessary with the Faculties and with other individuals and offices. Normally, changes become effective once they are approved by GFC or its delegate and are published in the University Calendar.” 9. GFC Executive Committee Terms of Reference (3. Mandate of the Committee) “5. Agendas of General Faculties Council GFC has delegated to the Executive Committee the authority to decide which items are placed on a GFC Agenda, and the order in which those agenda items appear on each GFC agenda. […] With respect to recommendations from … GFC committees [excluding APC], however, the role of the Executive Committee shall be to examine and debate the substance of reports or recommendations and to decide if an item is ready to be forwarded to the full governing body. The Executive Committee may decide to refer a proposal back to the originating body, to refer the proposal to another body or individual for study or review, or to take other action in order to ready a proposal for consideration by General Faculties Council. When the GFC Executive Committee forwards a proposal to GFC, it shall make a recommendation that GFC endorse; endorse with suggested amendments; not endorse; or forward the proposal with no comment.” 10. General Terms of Reference – Standing and Other Committees of General Faculties Council (GFC) “9. Delegations and Referrals Each standing committee has the power to refer or delegate specific matters under its authority to another GFC Standing Committee, to a Sub-Committee, or to an academic or administrative unit unless GFC expressly restricts referral or delegation or the other GFC Standing Committee, Sub-Committee or unit refuses to accept the referral or delegation.” 11. General Faculties Council Terms of Reference (3. Mandate of the Committee) “All powers and responsibilities under Section 26 of the PSLA not expressly delegated now or in the future shall be retained by General Faculties Council. The issues which remain with GFC or which would be referred by a Standing Committee to GFC would generally be in the nature of the following: • high level strategic and stewardship policy issues or matters of significant risk to the University; […] • those items which a Standing Committee considers to be of major strategic significance to or long-term impact on the University” Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) • Those who have been informed • Those who have been consulted • Those who are actively participating Kim Campbell, Principal, and Martin Ferguson-Pell, Vice Principal, Peter Lougheed Leadership College The Academic Oversight Committee of PLLC – Nat Kav, Vice-Provost, Programs (Chair), Jim Bohun, ALES, Rebecca Nagel, Associate Dean, Arts, Glen Loppnow, Associate Dean, Science Joseph Doucet, Dean, Faculty of Business Undergraduate Studies Policy Committee (USPC), Faculty of Business. Proposal reviewed and approved February 23, 2016  Business Faculty Council. Proposal reviewed and approved March 21, 2016 Approval Route (Governance) (including meeting dates) Undergraduate Studies Policy Committee, Faculty of Business – February 23, 2016. Motion presented to accept, passed unanimously. Business Faculty Council, Faculty of Business – March 21, 2016. Motion presented to accept, passed unanimously. GFC ASC Subcommittee on Standards – April 7, 2016 GFC Academic Standards Committee – April 21, 2016 GFC Executive Committee – May 16, 2016 General Faculties Council – May 30, 2016 Final Approver General Faculties Council – May 30, 2016 Attachments (each to be numbered 1 - <>) 1.  Attachment 1 (pages 1–26) Embedded Credit Certificate Template including Calendar Copy  ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "• Those who have been ",
                "informed ",
                "• Those who have been ",
                "consulted ",
                "• Those who are actively ",
                "participating ",
                "Kim Campbell, Principal, and Martin Ferguson-Pell, Vice Principal, Peter ",
                "Lougheed Leadership College ",
                "The Academic Oversight Committee of PLLC – Nat Kav, Vice-Provost, ",
                "Programs (Chair), Jim Bohun, ALES, Rebecca Nagel, Associate Dean, ",
                "Arts, Glen Loppnow, Associate Dean, Science ",
                "Joseph Doucet, Dean, Faculty of Business ",
                "Undergraduate Studies Policy Committee (USPC), Faculty of Business. ",
                "Proposal reviewed and approved February 23, 2016 ",
                "Business Faculty Council. Proposal reviewed and approved March 21, ",
                "2016 "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "Undergraduate Studies Policy Committee, Faculty of Business –",
                "February 23, 2016. Motion presented to accept, passed unanimously.",
                "Business Faculty Council, Faculty of Business – March 21, 2016. Motion",
                "presented to accept, passed unanimously.",
                "GFC ASC Subcommittee on Standards – April 7, 2016",
                "GFC Academic Standards Committee – April 21, 2016",
                "GFC Executive Committee – May 16, 2016",
                "General Faculties Council – May 30, 2016"
            ],
            "Final Approver": " General Faculties Council – May 30, 2016"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "7",
            "Agenda Title": "Proposal to Establish a Department of Critical Care Medicine and the Concurrent Termination of the Division of Critical Care Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry ",
            "Motion": " THAT General Faculties Council recommend that the Board of Governors approve the establishment of a Department of Critical Care Medicine, as submitted by the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry,  and as set forth in Attachment 1, and the concurrent termination of the Division of Critical Care Medicine, to take effect July 1, 2016. ",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2016-05-30",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "Richard Fedorak, Interim Dean, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry ",
            "Presenter": " Richard Fedorak, Interim Dean, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry Subject Proposed Establishment of a Department of Critical Care Medicine ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) To transform the existing free standing Division of Critical Care Medicine into a Department of Critical Care Medicine. The Division currently operates much like a Department, with a director who sits on the Faculty Evaluation Committee (for evaluation of its own members) and on the Faculty’s Chairs Committee. The Division has the responsibility for managing its own budget and teaching plan. We also recommend the current division director become chair of the department. The Impact of the Proposal is To strengthen the academic mission of the FOMD by removing organizational barriers to the further development of the academic critical care medicine.  A resource-neutral move that both formalizes the status quo and allows the unit to respond to scholarly developments in the academic field. It will also enhance recruitment and retention to compete against other Departments of Critical Care in the country. It will also create effective governance structures without requiring additional costs. Replaces/Revises (eg, policies, resolutions) The department will replace the free standing Division of Critical Care Medicine. Timeline/Implementation Date July 1, 2016 Estimated Cost Cost neutral Sources of Funding N/A Notes When this matter was considered by the GFC Academic Planning Committee, the committee requested that further details on library impact, organizational structure and budget be included for the consideration of General Faculties Council.  Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents Institutional values (2015 Comprehensive Institutional Plan) “Our values: The U of A community of students, faculty, staff, and alumni rely on shared, deeply held values that guide behaviour and actions. These values are drawn from the principles on which the University of Alberta was founded in 1908 and reflect a dynamic, modern institution of higher learning, leading change nationally and internationally. Excellence: Excellence in teaching that promotes learning; outstanding 2 Attachment 7 – Page 2 of 2 research and creative activity that fuel discovery and advance knowledge; and enlightened service that builds citizenship. Student Experience: The centrality of our students and our responsibility to provide an intellectually superior educational environment.  Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The PSLA gives GFC\nresponsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs (Section 26(1)).  Section 26(1)(o) provides that GFC may make recommendations to the Board of Governors on a number of matters including the budget and academic planning; Section 26(1)(l) provides that GFC may make recommendations to the Board of Governors on the establishment of Faculties, Schools, Departments, Chairs, and programs of study in the University in any subject that GFC thinks fits.   2. GFC Academic Planning Committee (APC) Terms of Reference/3.\nMandate of the Committee: “APC is responsible for making recommendations to GFC and/or to the Board of Governors concerning policy matters and action matters with respect to the following: […] 2. Units\na. Subject to Article 32 of the Faculty Agreement, to recommend to\nGFC on the establishment and termination of Faculties, Departments, Schools and divisions, and on mergers involving Faculties, Departments or Schools. (Divisions are defined as academic units with authority over student programs. They may be budgetary units and may or may not be part of an existing Department.)” 3. Board Learning and Discovery Committee (BLDC) Terms of\nReference: “3. MANDATE OF THE COMMITTEE Except as provided in paragraph 4 hereof and in the Board’s General Committee Terms of Reference, the Committee shall, in accordance with the Committee’s responsibilities with powers granted under the Post-Secondary Learning Act, monitor, evaluate, advise and make decisions on behalf of the Board with respect to matters concerning the teaching and research affairs of the University, including proposals coming from the administration and from General Faculties Council (the “GFC”), and shall consider future educational expectations and challenges to be faced by the University. The Committee shall also include any other matter delegated to the Committee by the Board.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing the Committee shall: […] l. review proposals and recommendations of GFC concerning the\nestablishment, continuation and re-organization of faculties, schools, departments and make recommendations to the Board in respect thereof[.] […] 4. LIMITATIONS ON DELEGATION BY THE BOARD\nThis general delegation of authority by the Board to the Committee shall be limited as set out in this paragraph. Notwithstanding the general delegation of authority to the Committee as set out in paragraph 3, the Board shall make all decisions with respect to:  a. the establishment, continuation, reorganization or abolition of\nfaculties, schools and departments” Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) • Those who have been\ninformed\n• Those who have been\nconsulted\n• Those who are actively\nparticipating\nChairs Committee, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, October 14, 2015 (For Consultation) Brygeda Renke , AASUA , January 25, 2016 (For Consultation) Approval Route (Governance) (including meeting dates) Faculty Council Medicine and Dentistry - November 17, 2015 GFC Academic Planning Committee  - March 23, 2016 GFC Executive Committee – April 11, 2016 General Faculties Council  - May 30, 2016 Board Learning and Discovery Committee  - June 2, 2016 Board of Governors – June 17, 2016 Final Approver Board of Governors Attachments (each to be numbered 1 - <>) 1. Attachment 1 (pages 1 – 29) – Briefing Note Academic Department of Critical Care\n2. Attachment 2 (pages 1 – 4) – Chairs Presentation Critical Care Medicine (slides 1 – 21)\n3. Attachment 3 (pages 1 – 3) – Recommendation of the Interim Dean, Dr. Richard Fedorak\n4. Attachment 4 (pages 1 – 2) - DCCM Transition Brief Executive Summary\n5. Attachment 5 (page 1) – Letter of Support from Dr. Shelley Duggan\n6. Attachment 6 (page 1) – Letter of Support from Dr. Jonathan Davidow\n7. Attachment 7 (pages 1-2) – Letter of Support from Dr. Michael Murphy\n8. Attachment 8 (page 1-2) – Library Impact Statement 9. Attachment 9 (page 1) – DCCM Organizational Structure\n10. Attachment 10 (page 1) – DCCM Budget Projections 2016-17\n",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "• Those who have been ",
                "informed ",
                "• Those who have been ",
                "consulted ",
                "• Those who are actively ",
                "participating ",
                "Chairs Committee, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, October 14, 2015 ",
                "(For Consultation) ",
                "Brygeda Renke , AASUA , January 25, 2016 (For Consultation) "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "Faculty Council Medicine and Dentistry - November 17, 2015",
                "GFC Academic Planning Committee  - March 23, 2016",
                "GFC Executive Committee – April 11, 2016",
                "General Faculties Council  - May 30, 2016",
                "Board Learning and Discovery Committee  - June 2, 2016",
                "Board of Governors – June 17, 2016"
            ],
            "Final Approver": " Board of Governors"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "8",
            "Agenda Title": "Academic Governance and Delegated Authority Motions: Whereas at its meeting of 25 January 2016 the General Faculties Council (GFC) approved the following motions: THAT the General Faculties Council will review the delegation of its authorities to all of its current committees, and by 30 June 2016 vote on whether to renew or revise these delegated authorities. and THAT the review of the governance and operations of the General Faculties Council is to be informed by the June 2013 report \"A Reflection on the State of Academic Governance at the University of Alberta.\" At its meeting of 30 May 2016, the General Faculties Council: a. approves the interim renewal of delegated authorities to all GFC standing committees until revised “Terms of Reference” modifying the delegated authorities of these committees are presented to it for its final approval on or before 30 April 2017; b. affirms its authority to make recommendations to the Board of Governors of the University of Alberta on any matter that it deems to be of interest to the University; and c. affirms its ultimate overarching authority to recall to it at any time any matter being considered by its standing committees under delegated authority; d. approves the creation of an ad hoc committee to lead, during the 2016-17 academic year, the process for the revision of the “Terms of Reference” for GFC and all of its standing committees, with “Terms of Reference” for and composition of this ad hoc committee to be approved by GFC at its September 2016 meeting; e. directs the ad hoc committee to bring forward to GFC its recommendations for revisions to the “Terms of Reference” for GFC and its Standing Committees addressing delegated authority for final approval on or before 30 April 2017; f. directs that during the 2016-17 academic year GFC meet as often as necessary between September and April to discuss and consider proposals of the ad hoc committee for the revision of the “Terms of Reference” of the General Faculties Council and its standing committees;  and g. moves that until such time as the “Terms of Reference” for the General Faculties Council and its standing committees are revised, anything in the current “Terms of Reference” for the General Faculties Council or any of its standing committees not consistent with any of the above is null and void. ",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2016-05-30",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "GFC Executive Committee and the Academic Governance Working Group ",
            "Presenter": " Duncan Elliott and Mirko van der Baan, Co-Chairs, Academic Governance Working Group Subject Academic Governance and Delegated Authority ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility David Turpin, President and Chair, General Faculties Council The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) To provide General Faculties Council (GFC) with a recommendation from the GFC Executive Committee and Academic Governance Working Group. To propose a plan forward for GFC and its Standing Committees to carry on with business for the next academic year, and to forward a proposal for consideration to establish an ad hoc committee to continue the work and deliver a recommendation to General Faculties Council by April 30, 2017.   Since February, the Academic Governance Working Group alongside GFC and its standing committees has been engaged in discussion  about the following questions: • Are we living up to the principles of the Committees’ Mandate? • What is the desired level of clarity on delegated authority? • Is current practice matching the Mandate? • Are we striking a correct balance between full delegation and no delegation? • Are appropriate matters being referred to full GFC from standing committee? • Is this your vision of Academic Governance?  The Impact of the Proposal is The GFC Executive Committee is recommending the proposal developed by the Academic Governance Working Group for decision by General Faculties Council at the May 30, 2016 meeting. Replaces/Revises (eg, policies, resolutions) N/A Timeline/Implementation Date Recommendation to GFC on academic governance delegations and renewal - May 30, 2016 Recommendation to GFC on revisions to Terms of Reference and delegated authority – April 30, 2017 Estimated Cost N/A Sources of Funding N/A Notes On January 25, 2016, General Faculties Council approved the following motions: Motion I:  THAT General Faculties Council will review the delegation of its authorities to all of its current committee, and by 30 June 2016 vote on whether to renew or revise these delegated authorities. Motion II: THAT the review of the governance and operations of the General Faculties Council is to be informed by the June 2013 report “A Reflection on the State of Academic Governance at the University of Alberta” The GFC Executive Committee created the Academic Governance Working Group (AGWG) to consider how to respond to the motions.  The AGWG, following several meetings, review of meeting materials and academic governance committees’ terms of reference, provided a recommendation to the GFC Executive Committee. Advice to GFC on a plan to move forward is now being presented. Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents Institutional values (2015 Comprehensive Institutional Plan) “Our values: The U of A community of students, faculty, staff, and alumni rely on shared, deeply held values that guide behaviour and actions. These values are drawn from the principles on which the University of Alberta was founded in 1908 and reflect a dynamic, modern institution of higher learning, leading change nationally and internationally. Excellence: Excellence in teaching that promotes learning; outstanding research and creative activity that fuel discovery and advance knowledge; and enlightened service that builds citizenship. Student Experience: The centrality of our students and our responsibility to provide an intellectually superior educational environment.  Integrity and Academic Freedom: Integrity, fairness, and principles of ethical conduct built on the foundation of academic freedom, open inquiry, and the pursuit of truth. Diversity and Creativity: A diverse, yet inclusive, dynamic collegial community that welcomes change and seizes opportunity with passion and creativity. Pride: Pride in our history and traditions, including contributions from Aboriginal people and other groups, which enrich and distinguish the university.” Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) “Powers of general faculties council 26(1)Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council is responsible for the academic affairs of the university and, without restricting the generality of the foregoing, has the authority to   (a) exercise any power of a faculty council that the general faculties council considers desirable to exercise;   (b) consider and make decisions on the reports of the faculty councils as to the programs of study in the faculties;   (c) determine all programs of study to which clause (b) does not apply that are to be offered by the university for credit toward the requirements for any degree or diploma;   (d) determine the timetables for examinations and for lectures and other instruction in each faculty;   (e) consider and make decisions on the reports of faculty councils as to the appointment of examiners and the conduct and results of examinations in the faculties;   (f) provide for the granting and conferring of degrees other than honorary degrees;   (g) provide for the preparation and publication of the university calendar;   (h) hear and determine appeals from the decisions of faculty  councils on applications, requests or petitions by students and others;   (i) consider all matters reported to it by any faculty council and communicate its opinion or action on those matters to the faculty council concerned;   (j) determine the date for the beginning and end of lectures in the university and also the beginning and end of each university term; (k) make rules and regulations for the management and operation of libraries;   (l) recommend to the board the establishment of faculties, schools, departments, chairs and programs of study in the university in any subject that the general faculties council thinks fit;   (m) make rules and regulations respecting academic awards;   (n) determine standards and policies respecting the admission of persons to the university as students;   (o) make recommendations to the board with respect to affiliation with other institutions, academic planning, campus planning, a building program, the budget, the regulation of residences and dining halls, procedures in respect of appointments, promotions, salaries, tenure and dismissals, and any other matters considered by the general faculties council to be of interest to the university;   (p) authorize lecturing and teaching on the university premises by persons other than members of the staff of the university;   (q) authorize a school to have a school council of the same nature and with the same powers, duties and functions as a faculty council and, in its discretion, revoke any authority so given.  (2) Any recommendations from the general faculties council to the board must be transmitted to the board through the president. (3) A general faculties council may delegate any of its powers, duties and functions under this Act, including the powers referred to in section 31, as it sees fit and may prescribe conditions governing the exercise or performance of any delegated power, duty or function, including the power of subdelegation.” 2. General Faculties Council Terms of Reference / 3. Mandate “Powers Retained by General Faculties Council All powers and responsibilities under Section 26 of the PSLA not expressly delegated now or in the future shall be retained by General Faculties Council. (GFC 02 DEC 1966) The issues which remain with GFC or which would be referred by a Standing Committee to GFC would generally be in the nature of the following: • high level strategic and stewardship policy issues or matters of significant risk to the University; • alterations to the mandate, terms of reference, composition, or structure of a Standing Committee; • those things which a Standing Committee considers to be of major strategic significance to or long-term impact on the University; • those matters on which, in the opinion of a Standing Committee chair, there has been a strong division of opinion within the Standing Committee; and • issues in which there is a lack of clarity as to which Standing Committee is responsible. 3. General Faculties Council Terms of Reference / 4. General Faculties Council Procedures  …. a) New Committees and Ad Hoc Committees  When GFC establishes a new committee, GFC (or delegate body) shall provide clear, explicit, and detailed terms of reference. (GFC 24 NOV 1980)  b)  Ad Hoc Committees: When an ad hoc committee is in doubt as to the scope of its terms of reference, it shall seek clarification and guidance from the Executive Committee of General Faculties Council. (EXEC JUN 1971)  When GFC establishes an ad hoc committee, a reporting date shall be set by the Secretary to GFC. (EXEC 03 MAY 1982)  Ad hoc committees shall be considered as being discharged once their reports are received or accepted by General Faculties Council unless the committee recommends otherwise, or General Faculties Council requests it to continue. (GFC 29 APR 1968) 4. GFC Executive Committee Terms of Reference/3. Mandate of the Committee:  “To act as the executive body of General Faculties Council and, in general, carry out the functions delegated to it by General Faculties Council.”  […] “5. Agendas of General Faculties Council GFC has delegated to the Executive Committee the authority to decide which items are placed on a GFC Agenda, and the order in which those agenda items appear on each GFC agenda.  When ordering items, the GFC Executive Committee will be mindful of any matters that are of particular concern to students during March and April so that the student leaders who bring those items forward are able to address these items at GFC before their terms end. (EXEC 06 NOV 2006)  […] With respect to recommendations from other bodies and other GFC committees, however, the role of the Executive Committee shall be to examine and debate the substance of reports or recommendations and to decide if an item is ready to be forwarded to the full governing body. The Executive Committee may decide to refer a proposal back to the originating body, to refer the proposal to another body or individual for study or review, or to take other action in order to ready a proposal for consideration by General Faculties Council. When the GFC Executive Committee forwards a proposal to GFC, it shall make a recommendation that GFC endorse; endorse with suggested amendments; not endorse; or forward the proposal with no comment.” Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) GFC Executive Committee (for discussion) – December 7, 2015 and January 11, 2016 General Faculties Council (for discussion) – January 25, 2016 GFC Executive Committee (for discussion) – February 1 and March 7, 2016 GFC Executive Committee Working Group  on Academic Governance (for discussion)– February/March  General Faculties Council (for discussion) – March 21, 2016 Academic Governance Working Group (for discussion) – April 2016 GFC Executive Committee (for discussion) – April 11, 2016 General Faculties Council – May 2, 2016 Academic Governance Working Group (for discussion) – May  2016 General Faculties Council Executive – May 16, 2016 Approval Route (Governance) (including meeting dates) GFC Executive Committee – May 16, 2016 General Faculties Council – May 30, 2016 Final Approver General Faculties Council – May 30, 2016 Attachments: Attachment 1 (pages 1-6): Excerpt from the Post-Secondary Learning Act, sections 26 and 31. Complete text available at: http://www.qp.alberta.ca/documents/Acts/p19p5.pdf  Attachment 2: Presentation to GFC, May 30, 2016  ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "GFC Executive Committee (for discussion) – December 7, 2015 and ",
                "January 11, 2016 ",
                "General Faculties Council (for discussion) – January 25, 2016 ",
                "GFC Executive Committee (for discussion) – February 1 and March 7, ",
                "2016 ",
                "GFC Executive Committee Working Group  on Academic Governance ",
                "(for discussion)– February/March ",
                "General Faculties Council (for discussion) – March 21, 2016 ",
                "Academic Governance Working Group (for discussion) – April 2016 ",
                "GFC Executive Committee (for discussion) – April 11, 2016 ",
                "General Faculties Council – May 2, 2016 ",
                "Academic Governance Working Group (for discussion) – May  2016 ",
                "General Faculties Council Executive – May 16, 2016 "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "GFC Executive Committee – May 16, 2016",
                "General Faculties Council – May 30, 2016"
            ],
            "Final Approver": " General Faculties Council – May 30, 2016"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "9",
            "Agenda Title": "Teaching and Learning and Teaching Evaluation and the Use of the Universal Student Ratings of Instruction (USRI) as an Evaluative Tool Preamble: A Notice of Motion was submitted by a member of GFC regarding the use of USRIs (see Attachment 1). This item was discussed by the GFC Executive Committee who agreed that this is an important issue but that it would benefit from a wider review.  As such, the GFC Executive Committee recommends a modification which extends the original motion to include not only the review of how USRIs might be modified, augmented, or possibly replaced, but also considers the development and implementation of a more robust solution to teaching assessment and evaluation. ",
            "Motion": " THAT the General Faculties Council, on the recommendation of the GFC Executive Committee, request that the GFC Committee on the Learning Environment report by 30 April 2017, on research into the use of student rating mechanisms of instruction in university courses. This will be informed by a critical review of the University of Alberta’s existing Universal Student Ratings of Instruction (USRIs) and their use for assessment and evaluation of teaching as well as a broad review of possible methods of multifaceted assessment and evaluation of teaching. The ultimate objective will be to satisfy the Institutional Strategic Plan: For the Public Good strategy to: Provide robust supports, tools, and training to develop and assess teaching quality, using qualitative and quantitative criteria that are fair, equitable, and meaningful across disciplines. ",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2016-05-30",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "Steven Dew, Provost and Vice-President (Academic) ",
            "Presenter": " Steven Dew, Provost and Vice-President (Academic) Subject Teaching and Learning and Teaching Evaluation and the use of the Universal Student Ratings of Instruction (USRI) as an evaluative tool ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) The Provost's Office supports the idea of examining the USRIs, but would like to undertake this task with a broader consideration of how USRIs might be modified, augmented, or possibly replaced over time.  Since the GFC Policy 111 specifies required use of the USRIs as a means of achieving instructor feedback from students, the USRIs cannot be simply removed without a replacement. Additionally, as specified in the GFC Policy 111, there must be multifaceted assessment and evaluation of teaching and while this exists in some areas, it is not being carried out throughout the university.  Thus a broader approach to this problem would support the development and implementation of a more robust solution to teaching assessment and evaluation.  The Impact of the Proposal is An examination of both the USRI and the need for multifaceted review of teaching will lead to rescission of the current GFC Policy 111 and creation of a new UAPPOL policy to support teaching and learning and teaching assessment and evaluation. Recommendations on the rescission of the GFC Policy 111 and creation of new UAPPOL policy to support Teaching, Learning and Teaching Evaluation will come forward to GFC for approval.  Replaces/Revises (eg, policies, resolutions) N/A Timeline/Implementation Date April 30, 2017 Estimated Cost N/A Sources of Funding N/A Notes Both GFC policy and collective agreements mandate that there must be a student evaluation of teaching. Currently the USRI fills this role and it could not be discontinued without an appropriate replacement.  Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents Institutional Strategic Plan: For the Public Good “OBJECTIVE: Inspire, model, and support excellence in teaching and learning.  […] iii. Strategy: Provide robust supports, tools, and training to develop and assess teaching quality, using qualitative and quantitative criteria that are fair, equitable, and meaningful across disciplines.” Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The PSLA gives GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs (Section 26(1)).  2. General Faculties Council Terms of Reference (4. GFC Procedures) “Notice of Motion A Notice of Motion is a method of informing the membership in advance of the intention to make a specific motion. When Notice of Motion has first been given at a GFC meeting, the GFC Executive Committee will decide whether it is appropriate that such a motion be placed on the Agenda of the next GFC meeting.”  3. GFC Executive Committee Terms of Reference (3. Mandate of the Committee) “5. Agendas of General Faculty Council GFC has delegated to the Executive Committee the authority to decide which items are placed on a GFC Agenda, and the order in which those agenda items appear on each GFC agenda.” 4. GFC Committee on the Learning Environment (CLE) Terms of Reference (3.Mandate of the Committee):  “The Committee on the Learning Environment is a standing committee of the General Faculties Council that promotes an optimal learning environment in alignment with guiding documents of the University of Alberta.  The Committee on the Learning Environment is responsible for making recommendations concerning policy matters and action matters with respect to the following:  […] b) To review and, as necessary, recommend to the GFC Academic Planning Committee and GFC Executive Committee as relates to the development and implementation of policies on teaching, learning, teaching evaluation, and recognition for teaching that promote the University Academic Plan. c) To develop policies that promote ongoing assessment of teaching and learning through all Faculties and units. d) To nurture the development of innovative and creative teaching practices. e) To encourage the sharing and discussion of evidence about effective teaching and learning. f) To encourage the sharing and discussion of evidence about effective teaching, learning, and the services. g) To promote projects with relevant internal and external bodies that offer unique teaching and learning opportunities that would benefit the university community. h) To consider any matter deemed by the GFC Committee on the Learning Environment to be within the purview of its general responsibility. 5. GFC policy 111 Teaching and Learning and Teaching Evaluation “111.2 Teaching Evaluation  1. Evaluation of teaching at the University of Alberta serves two purposes: a. Summative – Evaluation provides a review and overview of an instructor’s teaching that is an essential element in promotion and tenure decisions. In its summative form, teaching evaluation forms a basis for rewarding excellence, as well as the basis for withholding reward. b. Formative – Evaluation provides helpful feedback to teachers by identifying teaching strengths and weaknesses and, in so doing, giving guidance for the improvement or refinement of teaching skills. 2. Evaluation of teaching must be multifaceted. Multifaceted evaluation shall include the Universal Student Ratings of Instruction set out in Section 111.3 and other methods of assessing teaching designed within individual Faculties to respond to the particular conditions of that Faculty. Such assessments shall include one or more of the following: input from administrators, peers, self, undergraduate and graduate students, and alumni. 3. Recognizing that the evaluation of teaching at the University shall be multifaceted, Faculty Evaluation Committee (FEC) decisions concerning tenure, promotion or unsatisfactory teaching performance must be based on more than one indicator of the adequacy of teaching. 4. Assessment of teaching involving input from administrators, peers, self, alumni, or undergraduate and graduate students in addition to the Universal Student Ratings of Instruction should occur annually prior to tenure. For continuing faculty (ie, Categories A1.1, A1.5 and A1.6), such assessment will occur at least triennially.  5. The University shall continue to support University Teaching Services in its education programming which is focused on the development and improvement of teaching and learning and its efforts to enhance research in university teaching. 111.3 Universal Student Ratings of Instruction In recognition of the University's commitment to teaching, the General Faculties Council endorses a system of Universal Student Ratings of Instruction. This system, however, is only one part of the multi-faceted approach described in Section 111.2. The Universal Student Ratings of Instruction are administered electronically via a system known as the eUSRI system.   The Universal Student Ratings of Instruction are designed to provide a minimal university-wide base of information on student ratings to the parties listed in this Section. With this purpose in mind, the General Faculties Council adopts the following policies: A. All Faculties will ensure that evaluation of all instructors and courses will take place each time a course is offered. The term ‘instructors’ is meant to include tenured professors, tenure-track professors, sessional instructors, clinical instructors, field supervisors and graduate teaching assistants with responsibilities for courses. […] D. The anonymity of student responses to the Universal Student Ratings of Instruction is of fundamental importance in maintaining student confidentiality and encouraging the free expression of views. Under normal circumstances, the anonymity of students will be protected. Universal Student Ratings of Instruction offer an avenue of feedback, including feedback critical of instructors. […] G. The numerical summaries for the ten Universal Student Ratings of Instruction questions will be reported to the instructor, the Chair, Director or Dean and students. […] I. All results given out to students, Chairs, Directors and Deans will have the following cautionary preface: Student questionnaires form an important part of evaluating teaching effectiveness but cannot be taken alone as a complete assessment of an instructor or course. Factors other than an instructor’s teaching ability may influence ratings. These factors include class size, class level, Faculty, time in class, required versus optional course, grade expectations, student GPA, gender, race, ethnicity, age of both students and instructors. […] J. Nothing in this section will prevent instructors from seeking other means of feedback from students during the term.” The full GFC Policy 111 Teaching and Learning and Teaching Evaluation is available at: http://www.gfcpolicymanual.ualberta.ca/111TeachingandLearningandTeach.aspx 5. University of Alberta Faculty Agreement July 2006 (incorporating June 2007 and July 2008 amendments) “13.06 The standards for evaluation of teaching performance shall be broadly based, including course content, course design and performance in the classroom. Such evaluation may take into account information such as statistical summaries of responses to student questionnaires, comprehensive reviews of student commentary; reviews by peers, reviews by administrative officials and reviews of teaching dossiers and other materials provided by the staff member.” http://www.gfcpolicymanual.ualberta.ca/111TeachingandLearningandTeach.aspx\nRouting (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) • Those who have been informed • Those who have been consulted • Those who are actively participating Notice of Motion from GFC member to President Office of the Provost and Vice-President (Academic) Sarah Forgie, Chair, GFC Committee on the Learning Environment GFC Executive Committee – May 16, 2016 Approval Route (Governance) (including meeting dates) GFC Executive Committee – May 16, 2016 General Faculties Council – May 30, 2016 Final Approver General Faculties Council Attachments (each to be numbered 1 - <>) 1.  Attachment 1:  (page 1) email Notice of Motion from GFC member Carolyn Sale, May 9, 2016 ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "• Those who have been ",
                "informed ",
                "• Those who have been ",
                "consulted ",
                "• Those who are actively ",
                "participating ",
                "Notice of Motion from GFC member to President ",
                "Office of the Provost and Vice-President (Academic) ",
                "Sarah Forgie, Chair, GFC Committee on the Learning Environment ",
                "GFC Executive Committee – May 16, 2016 "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "GFC Executive Committee – May 16, 2016",
                "General Faculties Council – May 30, 2016"
            ],
            "Final Approver": " General Faculties Council"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "9 -- Attachment 1",
            "Agenda Title": "Proposal for a new Scheduling Initiative for Augustana Faculty ",
            "Motion": " N/A ",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2016-05-30",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "Dr. Allen Berger, Dean, Augustana Faculty ",
            "Presenter": " Dr. Allen Berger, Dean, Augustana Faculty; Dr. Karsten Mündel, Associate Dean, Academic, Augustana Faculty Subject New Scheduling Initiative for Augustana Faculty ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) As a residential, undergraduate, liberal arts and science faculty within the University of Alberta, the Augustana Campus places a special value on community-based education, international and outdoor educational experiences, undergraduate research and connections to rural and Aboriginal communities. In this context, the proposed new framework serves a dual-purpose vision: 1) to provide a rhythm for each academic year that advances experiential learning opportunities for students, connections between these opportunities and more traditional classroom work, and pedagogical innovation by faculty; 2) to create a clearer niche for Augustana and further differentiate the undergraduate student experience at Augustana from alternatives on North Campus or at other Alberta universities. The Impact of the Proposal is Apart from the above, the proposed Augustana Scheduling Initiative could potentially address:  -student workload issues: particularly important for student mental health challenges that are increasingly recognized as critical;  -faculty workload issues: particularly the need to accommodate research expectations in a predominantly teaching Faculty;  -greater flexibility in degree completion times: especially with the opportunity to complete a *3 course in September or January;  -development of a first-year seminar: understood across North America to be a “high-impact practice”, this mandatory “First Year Experience” course (proposed as AUIDS 101) will be a small seminar-\nstyle course for new students beginning studies at Augustana Faculty in the September or January 3-weeks course period;  -provide opportunities for first and second-year students to ‘sample’ courses: the 3-week course period means students commit less time to an interest that may or may not result in a change of major or minor, and give a ‘short-term’ opportunity to explore other subject areas;  -ability to accommodate students’ varying learning styles: this comes with the flexibility to present different learning methods within a 3 or 11 week course, as well as potentially over two or more of these components in the academic schedule;  Replaces/Revises (eg, policies, resolutions) University Calendar 52.2, 52.3, 52.4, 55.4. Timeline/Implementation Date September 2017 Estimated Cost N/A Sources of Funding Existing resources.  There are no additional costs associated with the move to the 3-week/11-week calendar. A full load for students will continue to be 15 credits in the standard University of Alberta Fall term and 15 credits in the Winter term. Notes On May 4, 2015, Augustana Faculty Council passed the following motion: “THAT the Augustana Faculty implement, effective 2017-18, a new academic schedule with the Fall and Winter semesters each consisting of a 3-week term followed by an 11-week term and adopt a new timetable for the 11-week terms…and investigate the feasibility of an additional 3-week block term in the spring.” Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents Aligns with Dare to Deliver; Dare to Discover values:  -enrich the student experience; foster a collegial learning culture; promote interdisciplinary collaboration, enhancing opportunities to develop undergraduate inquiry and research skills; create learning opportunities for students and creative collaborations to address global challenges and initiatives; provide an intellectually superior educational environment for students; diverse, yet inclusive, dynamic collegial community that welcomes change. Aligns with Comprehensive Institutional Plan strategies, such as: -provide foundational support structures for students to create positive student experiences and engagement; ensure a high level of teaching quality; support programs and initiatives to help increase retention and completion rates; provide enhanced experiential learning opportunities; continue to create international opportunities for students; provide foundational support structures for students in order to create a nurturing environment that allows for positive student experience and engagement; continue development of innovative programming to meet the needs of students and the community; increase interdisciplinary, collaborative program and initiative development in order to offer students innovative and relevant educational opportunities. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): GFC is responsible, generally, for the academic affairs of the University and specifically, for the Academic Schedule of the University (Sections 26(1), 26(1)(d)(e)(g) and (j) (Powers of General Faculties Council)).  2. GFC Executive Committee Terms of Reference (3. Mandate of the Committee:  “4. Academic Schedule  a. Delegation  Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) Section 26(l)(j) follows:  26(1) Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council is responsible for the academic affairs of the university and, without restricting the generality of the foregoing, has the authority to…  (j) determine the date for the beginning and end of lectures in the university and also the beginning and end of each university term…. b. Academic Schedule Changes The GFC Executive Committee has delegated authority from General Faculties Council to approve the Academic Schedule. Any changes to the Academic Schedule proposed after the Schedule has been approved must be submitted to the Executive Committee. That committee will determine which changes are sufficiently substantial and require, therefore, GFC approval and which ones are routine in nature and could be dealt with by the Executive Committee.” 3. UAPPOL Academic Schedule Policy states: “[…] 2. ACADEMIC SCHEDULE DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY The authority to determine the Academic Schedule is the responsibility of the GFC Executive Committee, as delegated to that body by General Faculties Council. The Registrar recommends on the Academic Schedule to the GFC Executive Committee.” 4. UAPPOL Academic Schedule Procedure states: “Each spring, the Exams and Timetabling Division in the Office of the Registrar will begin drafting the Academic Schedule for the following year[…]. Two drafts will be sent out to a distribution list that includes the President, Vice-Presidents and senior administrators, Deans, Assistant and Associate Deans, Directors and other stakeholders for feedback and suggested changes. The final draft of the Academic Schedule will be sent to the GFC Executive Committee no later than mid-October for approval. After the Academic Schedule has been approved, it will be published in the University Calendar.” 5. GFC Committee on the Learning Environment Terms of Reference (3. Mandate of the Committee) “The Committee on the Learning Environment is responsible for making recommendations concerning policy matters and action matters with respect to the following: […] e) To nurture the development of innovative and creative learning services and teaching practices. f) To encourage the sharing and discussion of evidence about effective teaching, learning, and learning services. g) To promote critical reflection on the impact of broad societal changes in teaching, learning, and the learning environment. h) To promote projects with relevant internal and external bodies that offer unique teaching and learning opportunities that would benefit the university community. i) To consider any matter deemed by the GFC Committee on the Learning Environment to be within the purview of its general responsibility. 6. GFC Academic Standards Committee Subcommittee on Standards Terms of Reference (3. Mandate of the Committee) “To review and make recommendations to the GFC Academic Standards Committee (ASC) with respect to a number of issues which affect all students at the University of Alberta. These include, but are not limited to: a. examination policy b. academic definitions c. academic standing regulations d. admission/transfer requirement” 7. GFC Academic Standards Committee Terms of Reference (3. Mandate of the Committee) “The ASC is responsible for making recommendations and/or for providing advice to GFC, its Executive Committee, and/or the GFC Academic Planning Committee (APC) on the matters set out below, which include such areas as admission and transfer, including admission and transfer to Faculties, admission of Open Studies students, academic standing policies and general university admission policies, and all institutional marking and grading policies and/or procedures.” […] Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) • Those who have been informed • Those who have been consulted • Those who are actively participating Augustana Fine Arts and Humanities, Science, and Social Sciences Department meetings – extensive consultation January-April 2015 (all departments include student representatives). Augustana Faculty Council – regular discussion in monthly meetings prior to formal approval in May 2015. Provost’s office – consultations and discussion Registrar’s Office – consultations and discussion June 2015 – April 2016 Information Services and Technology – consultations and discussion June 2015 – April 2016 Peter Lougheed Leadership College – consultations January & March 2015  Dean’s Council – discussion, January 19, 2016 SU President & VP-Academic – discussion, January 2016. Phyllis Clark’s Senior Executive Team – discussion, January 2016 AASUA – discussion, January 12, 2016 GFC Committee on the Learning Environment – discussion March 2, 2016 GFC Academic Standards Committee-Subcommittee on Standards – discussion March 3, 2016 GFC Academic Standards Committee – discussion March 17, 2016 GFC Executive Committee – discussion April 11, 2016 General Faculties Council – discussion May 30, 2016 Approval Route (Governance) (including meeting dates) N/A Final Approver N/A Attachments (each to be numbered 1 - 3) 1.  Attachment 1: Augustana Faculty 3-11 Calendar Information Document (pages 1 - 10) 2.  Attachment 2: Proposed Augustana 3-11 Calendar Revisions (pages 1 - 4)  3.  Attachment 3: Draft table of standard U of A 2017-18 Academic Schedule compared to proposed      Augustana Block and Session Academic Schedule.  ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "• Those who have been ",
                "informed ",
                "• Those who have been ",
                "consulted ",
                "• Those who are actively ",
                "participating ",
                "Augustana Fine Arts and Humanities, Science, and Social Sciences ",
                "Department meetings – extensive consultation January-April 2015 (all ",
                "departments include student representatives). ",
                "Augustana Faculty Council – regular discussion in monthly meetings ",
                "prior to formal approval in May 2015. ",
                "Provost’s office – consultations and discussion ",
                "Registrar’s Office – consultations and discussion June 2015 – April 2016 ",
                "Information Services and Technology – consultations and discussion ",
                "June 2015 – April 2016 ",
                "Peter Lougheed Leadership College – consultations January & March ",
                "2015 ",
                "Dean’s Council – discussion, January 19, 2016 ",
                "SU President & VP-Academic – discussion, January 2016. ",
                "Phyllis Clark’s Senior Executive Team – discussion, January 2016 ",
                "AASUA – discussion, January 12, 2016 ",
                "GFC Committee on the Learning Environment – discussion March 2, ",
                "2016 ",
                "GFC Academic Standards Committee-Subcommittee on Standards – ",
                "discussion March 3, 2016 ",
                "GFC Academic Standards Committee – discussion March 17, 2016 ",
                "GFC Executive Committee – discussion April 11, 2016 ",
                "General Faculties Council – discussion May 30, 2016 "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": " N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "12",
            "Agenda Title": "Annual Report on Graduate Enrolment 2015/16 ",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2016-05-30",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "Heather Zwicker, Interim Vice-Provost and Dean, FGSR ",
            "Presenter": "s Heather Zwicker, Interim Vice-Provost and Dean, FGSR Subject Discussion of the report on graduate enrolment ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) To discuss the 2015/16 report on graduate enrolment. The Impact of the Proposal is Provides the institution with graduate enrolment information for awareness and to aid in future planning.  Replaces/Revises (e.g., policies, resolutions) N/A Timeline/Implementation Date N/A  Estimated Cost N/A Sources of Funding N/A Notes This is the first graduate enrolment report produced for the UAlberta community, and it is my proposal that this be produced annually. Discussion and suggestions that pertain not just to this document but to an annual document of this type would be particularly welcome. Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents Dare to Discover Values:  • Create a dynamic, discovery-based learning environment by aiming for a mix of undergraduate and graduate students typical of leading public research universities.  • Enhance the global perspective and intercultural climate at the university by celebrating and drawing upon the diversity within it.  • Build strong partnerships with the capital region, the cities of Edmonton and Camrose, other urban and rural Alberta communities, and all orders of government to fulfil our responsibility as Alberta's university, a leader on the national stage with global connections.  • Enhance relationships with other nations to create learning opportunities for students and research collaborations to address global challenges and initiatives that foster mutual understanding, global peace, and prosperity.  • Engage with, serve, and draw strength from the diversity of our external communities, in particular Aboriginal, Franco-Albertan, multicultural, rural, and northern communities.  • Promote administrative effectiveness and good governance by improving communication among units, enhancing collaboration, implementing transformative ideas, and revising organizational structures. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The PSLA gives GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs. Further, the PSLA gives the Board of Governors (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) authority over certain admission requirements and rules respecting enrolment. The Board has delegated its authority over admissions requirements and rules respecting enrolment to GFC and the GFC ASC. (Sections 26(1), 60(1)(c) and (d)). 2. General Faculties Council (GFC) Terms of Reference (Section 3/ Mandate):  “[…]  The issues which remain with GFC or which would be referred by a Standing Committee to GFC would generally be in the nature of the following:  • high level strategic and stewardship policy issues or matters of significant risk to the University;[…]” GFC has powers under the PSLA to  “make recommendations to the board with respect to affiliation with other institutions, academic planning, campus planning, a building program, the budget, the regulation of residences and dining halls, procedures in respect of appointments, promotions, salaries, tenure and dismissals, and any other matters considered by the general faculties council to be of interest to the university […][PSLA Section 26(1)(o)]” and to “determine standards and policies respective the admission of persons to the university as students[.][PSLA Section 26(1)(n)]”  3.  GFC Executive Committee Terms of Reference/3. Mandate of the Committee: “To act as the executive body of General Faculties Council and, in general, carry out the functions delegated to it by General Faculties Council. (GFC 08 SEP 1966) (GFC 12 FEB 1996) 4. GFC Executive Committee Terms of Reference, Section 3.5, states: “Agendas of General Faculties Council  GFC has delegated to the Executive Committee the authority to decide which items are placed on a GFC Agenda, and the order in which those agenda items appear on each GFC agenda.  When ordering items, the GFC Executive Committee will be mindful of any matters that are of particular concern to students during March and April so that the student leaders who bring those items forward are able to address these items at GFC before their terms end. (EXEC 06 NOV 2006)  When recommendations are forwarded to General Faculties Council from APC, the role of the Executive shall be to decide the order in which items should be considered by GFC. The Executive Committee is responsible for providing general advice to the Chair about proposals being forwarded from APC to GFC.  With respect to recommendations from other bodies and other GFC committees, however, the role of the Executive Committee shall be to examine and debate the substance of reports or recommendations and to decide if an item is ready to be forwarded to the full governing body. The Executive Committee may decide to refer a proposal back to the originating body, to refer the proposal to another body or individual for study or review, or to take other action in order to ready a proposal for consideration by General Faculties Council. When the GFC Executive Committee forwards a proposal to GFC, it shall make a recommendation that GFC endorse; endorse with suggested amendments; not endorse; or forward the proposal with no comment. (GFC 30 JUN 1992)” 5. Board Learning and Discovery Committee Terms of Reference (Section 3/Mandate):  “Except as provided in paragraph 4 hereof and in the Board’s General Committee Terms of Reference, the Committee shall, in accordance with the Committee’s responsibilities with powers granted under the Post-Secondary Learning Act, monitor, evaluate, advise and make decisions on behalf of the Board with respect to matters concerning the teaching and research affairs of the University, including proposals coming from the administration and from General Faculties Council (the “GFC”), and shall consider future educational expectations and challenges to be faced by the University. The Committee shall also include any other matter delegated to the Committee by the Board.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing the Committee shall:  a. receive and approve initiatives related to the overall academic mission and related plans and policies of the University; […] d.  review and approve the establishment, modification and removal  of enrolment quotas and annually review such quotas[.][…]”  6. GFC Academic Planning Committee Terms of Reference (Section 3 Mandate):  “APC is responsible for making recommendations to GFC and/or to the Board of Governors concerning policy matters and action matters with respect to the following: […] 3. Enrollment and Planning a. To recommend to GFC on University-wise enrolment targets for undergraduate and graduate students.  b. To recommend to GFC on enrollment management processes, including the establishment of new quotas for individual Faculties and programs. […]”  Routing (Include meeting dates) Consultative Route (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) Graduate Education Funding Advisory Committee (GEFAC) – 14 Jan 2016 Vice Provosts Council – 18 Jan 2016 Faculty of Graduate Studies & Research Council – 20 Jan 2016 Deans’ Council – 20 Jan 2016 President’s Advisory Committee of Chairs – 16 Feb 2016 President’s Executive Committee - Operations – 18 Feb 2016 Academic Planning Committee -  24 Feb 2016 Academic Standards Committee – 17 Mar 2016 GFC Executive Committee – 11 April 2016 Board Learning and Discovery Committee – 25 April 2016 Board of Governors – 13 May 2016 General Faculties Council – 30 May 2016 Approval Route (Governance) (including meeting dates) N/A Final Approver N/A Attachments (each to be numbered 1 - 23): 1.    Attachment 1 (pages 1-23) - Annual Report on Graduate Enrolment 2015/16 ",
            "Participation": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": " N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "15",
            "Agenda Title": "General Faculties Council Standing Committee Report Executive Committee",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2016-05-30",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "N/A",
            "Presenter": "N/A",
            "Description": "1. Since the last GFC meeting, the Executive Committee met once on May 16. 2. Actions Taken with Delegated Authority from GFC May 16, 2016 Approved new course designator of GTOTC for the Gestion Touristique (Tourism Management) Diploma Program, Centre Collegial de L'Alberta, Faculté Saint-Jean  Approved agenda for May 30 GFC meeting  Recommended  to GFC - Proposed New Copyright Regulations Recommended  to GFC - Institutional Strategic Plan: For the Public Good Recommended  to GFC - Proposal for the creation of a Critical Care Department, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry Recommended  to GFC - Proposed new Embedded Credit Certificate in Interdisciplinary Leadership Studies, Faculty of Business Recommended  to GFC – motions related to academic governance including, but not limited to: interim renewal of delegated authorities to standing committees, affirmations on authority to recommend to Board of Governors and recall matters from standing committees, creation of an ad hoc committee, that GFC meet as often as necessary in 2016/17 between September and April on these matters. Recommended  to GFC – request to GFC Committee on the Learning Environment to research and report on the use of student rating mechanisms of instruction in university courses. Detailed motion and final document summary: http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/ExecutiveCommittee/ExecutiveMotionandFinalDocument\nSummary.aspx 3. Items that the Committee Discussed or Advised on  May 16, 2016 Notice of Motion from GFC Members regarding review of USRIs Centre for Writing, Faculty of Arts Terms of reference and records of meetings for this committee can be found at: http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/ExecutiveCommittee.aspx ",
            "Participation": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "16",
            "Agenda Title": "General Faculties Council Standing Committee Report Academic Planning Committee",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2016-05-30",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "N/A",
            "Presenter": "N/A",
            "Description": "1. Since the last GFC meeting, the Academic Planning Committee met once on May 11.  2. Actions Taken with Delegated Authority from GFC May 11, 2016 Recommended to General Faculties Council - the Institutional Strategic Plan - For the Public Good Detailed motion and final document summary: http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/AcademicPlanningCommittee/APCMotion 3. Items that the Committee Discussed or Advised on  May 11, 2016   Draft University of Alberta 2015-16 Annual Report to Government of Alberta  Terms of reference and records of meeting for this committee can be found at: http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/AcademicPlanningCommittee.aspx ",
            "Participation": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "17",
            "Agenda Title": "General Faculties Council Standing Committee Report Academic Standing Committee",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2016-05-30",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "N/A",
            "Presenter": "N/A",
            "Description": "1. Since the last GFC meeting, the Academic Standing Committee met once on May 19.  2. Actions Taken with Delegated Authority from GFC May 19, 2016 Approved Office of the Registrar: Proposed Approval and Denial of Transfer Credit for May 2016 Detailed motion and final document summary: http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/AcademicStandardsCommittee/ASCMotionandFinalDocume\nntSummary.aspx 3. Items that the Committee Discussed or Advised on  May 19, 2016 Campus Alberta Quality Council - Student Learning Outcomes  Proposed Changes to the Statement on Equity in Student Affairs Terms of reference and records of meeting for this committee can be found at: http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/AcademicStandardsCommittee.aspx ",
            "Participation": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "18",
            "Agenda Title": "http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil.aspx http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/Other%20Committees%20to%20which%20GFC%20Elects.aspx",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2016-05-30",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "N/A",
            "Presenter": "N/A",
            "Description": "General Faculties Council Standing Committee Report Committee on the Learning Environment 1. During the 2016/17 academic year the Committee on the Learning Environment met seven times: September 2, October 7, November 4, December 2, January 20, March 2, and April 6; the Committee is also scheduled to meet on June 1.  2. Actions Taken with Delegated Authority from GFC March 2, 2016 Approved  the Terms of Reference for the GFC Committee on the Learning Environment Subcommittee to Explore Teaching Tenure Stream at the University of Alberta Detailed motion and final document summary: www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/CommitteeontheLearningEnvironm/CLEMotionandFinalDocume\nntSummary.aspx 3. Items that the Committee Discussed or Advised on  - Copyright - Report on Evaluation of Online Universal Student Ratings of Instruction (USRI) - Institutional Strategic Plan - MOOC Oversight Committee - Universal Classrooms - Formative Feedback - Mandated USRI Questions for Project Based and Online Courses - Subcommittee to Explore Teaching Tenure Stream - Review of GFC Committee on the Learning Environment Terms of Reference and Delegated Authority Terms of reference and records of meeting for this committee can be found at: http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/CommitteeontheLearningEnvironm.aspx  ",
            "Participation": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "20",
            "Agenda Title": "General Faculties Council Standing Committee Report GFC Undergraduate Awards and Scholarship Committee (UASC)",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2016-05-30",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "N/A",
            "Presenter": "N/A",
            "Description": "1. GFC UASC has met four times since last reporting to GFC:  February 9, March 8, April 12, and May 10, 2016 2. Actions taken under delegated authority from GFC since last Report: February 9, 2016:   Approval of 11 new undergraduate awards, scholarships and bursaries Approval of amendments to three existing undergraduate awards, scholarships and bursaries March 8, 2016: Approval of 22 new undergraduate awards, scholarships and bursaries Approval of amendments to three existing undergraduate awards, scholarships and bursaries April 12, 2016:  Approval of nine new undergraduate awards, scholarships and bursaries Approval of amendments to eight existing undergraduate awards, scholarships and bursaries May 10, 2016:  Approval of seven new undergraduate awards, scholarships and bursaries Approval of amendments to four existing undergraduate awards, scholarships and bursaries Detailed Motion and Final Document Summaries: http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/UndergraduateAwardsandScholars/UASCMotio\nnandFinalDocumentSummary/UASC2015MotionandFinalDocumentSummary.aspx 3. Items that the Committee Discussed or Advised On: March 8, 2016:  Discussion Paper: Undergraduate Student Financial Support at the University of Alberta April 12, 2016:  Review of Terms of Reference and Delegated Authority - GFC Undergraduate Awards and Scholarship Committee (UASC) Terms of Reference, Agendas, and Approved Minutes of GFC UASC:  http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/UndergraduateAwardsandScholars.aspx ",
            "Participation": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "21",
            "Agenda Title": "General Faculties Council Standing Committee Report GFC University Teaching Awards Committee (UTAC)",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2016-05-30",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "N/A",
            "Presenter": "N/A",
            "Description": "1. The GFC University Teaching Awards Committee has met twice during the current academic year:  March 4, 2016 and April 8, 2016. 2. Actions taken under delegated authority from GFC: April 8, 2016: Approved the winners of the 2016 Rutherford Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching; the 2016 William Hardy Alexander Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching; the 2016 Provost’s Award for Early Achievement of Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching; the 2016 Teaching Unit Award; the 2016 Award for Excellence in Graduate Recipients of the 2016 Rutherford Awards for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching  (Three (3) Awardees available from twelve (12) Nominations) Anna Oswald Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry Fred West Faculty of Science Barbara Billingsley Faculty of Law Recipient of the 2016 William Hardy Alexander Awards for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching  (One (1) Awardee available from three (3) Nominations) Marie Nychka Faculty of Arts Recipients of the 2016 Provost’s Awards for Early Achievement of Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching  (Three (3) Awardees available from five (5) Nominations)  Kisha Supernant Faculty of Arts Clover Bench Faculty of Agricultural, Life and Environmental Sciences (ALES) Brendan Pass Faculty of Science Recipient of the 2016 Teaching Unit Award  (One (1) Awardee available from one (1) Nomination) Janet A. W. Elliott and Anastasia L. Elias “CHE 243 Engineering Thermodynamics” Faculty of Engineering Recipients of the 2016 Award for Excellence in Graduate Teaching  (Two (2) Awardees available from three (3) Nominations) Lu-Anne McFarlane Faculty of Rehabilitation Medicine Denise Larsen Faculty of Education *Please note that the adjudication meeting is held in camera 3. Items that the Committee Discussed or Advised On: April 8, 2016:  Review of GFC University Teaching Awards Committee Terms of Reference Terms of reference and records of meetings for this Committee can be found at:  http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/UniversityTeachingAwardsCommit.aspx ",
            "Participation": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "22",
            "Agenda Title": "Changes to the Code of Student Behaviour, Code of Applicant Behaviour, Practicum Intervention Policy to reflect changes in the Alberta Human Rights Act ",
            "Motion": " N/A ",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2016-05-30",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "Vice-President (Academic) and Provost ",
            "Presenter": " N/A Subject Changes to the Code of Student Behaviour, Code of Applicant Behaviour, and Practicum Intervention Policy to comply with AHRA ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) In December 2015, the Alberta Human Rights Act  was amended to include gender identity and gender expression as expressly prohibited grounds of discrimination. The attached changes ensure that the Code of Student Behaviour, Code of Applicant Behaviour, and Practicum Intervention Policy comply with these revisions. These changes are being circulated for information. The Impact of the Proposal is Ensures compliance with current Alberta Human Rights legislation. Replaces/Revises (eg, policies, resolutions) Updates the current Code of Student Behaviour, Code of Applicant Behaviour, Practicum Intervention Policy Timeline/Implementation Date immediately Estimated Cost None Sources of Funding N/A Notes  Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Alberta Human Rights Act “3(1) No person shall publish, issue or display or cause to be published, issued or displayed before the public any statement, publication, notice, sign, symbol, emblem or other representation that (a) indicates discrimination or an intention to discriminate against a person or a class of persons, or (b) is likely to expose a person or a class of persons to hatred or contempt  because of the race, religious beliefs, colour, gender, gender identity, gender expression, physical disability, mental disability, age, ancestry, place of origin, marital status, source of income, family status or sexual orientation of that person or class of persons.” 2. Post-secondary Learning Act “26(1) Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council is responsible for the academic affairs of the university” 3.  Post-secondary Learning Act “Student Discipline 31(1) The general faculties council has general supervision of student affairs at a university and in particular, but without restricting the generality of the foregoing, the general faculties may (a) Subject to the right of appeal to the board, discipline students attending the university …” 4. GFC Campus Law Review Committee (CLRC) Terms of Reference (Mandate of the Committee) “A. Code of Student Behaviour 1. To review, from time to time, the Code of Student Behaviour and student discipline procedures. […] B. Code of Applicant Behaviour 1. To review, from time to time, the Code of Applicant Behaviour. […] C. Practicum Intervention Policy 1. To review, from time to time, the Practicum Intervention Policy.” 5. GFC Executive Committee Terms of Reference (3. Mandate of the Committee) “Agendas of General Faculties Council  GFC has delegated to the Executive Committee the authority to decide which items are placed on a GFC Agenda, and the order in which those agenda items appear on each GFC agenda.  When ordering items, the GFC Executive Committee will be mindful of any matters that are of particular concern to students during March and April so that the student leaders who bring those items forward are able to address these items at GFC before their terms end. (EXEC 06 NOV 2006)  […] With respect to recommendations from other bodies and other GFC committees, however, the role of the Executive Committee shall be to examine and debate the substance of reports or recommendations and to decide if an item is ready to be forwarded to the full governing body. The Executive Committee may decide to refer a proposal back to the originating body, to refer the proposal to another body or individual for study or review, or to take other action in order to ready a proposal for consideration by General Faculties Council. When the GFC Executive Committee forwards a proposal to GFC, it shall make a recommendation that GFC endorse; endorse with suggested amendments; not endorse; or forward the proposal with no comment.” Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) Provost and Vice-President (Academic) General Counsel (Code of Student Behaviour) GFC Campus Law Review Committee (for information) – April 28, 2016  GFC Executive Committee (for information) – May 16, 2016 General Faculties Council (for information) – May 30, 2016 Approval Route (Governance) (including meeting dates) N/A Final Approver N/A Attachments (each to be numbered 1 - <>) 1.  Attachment 1 (page(s) 1) Changes to Code of Student Behaviour 2.  Attachment 2 (page(s) 1) Changes to Code of Applicant Behaviour 3.  Attachment 3 (page(s) 1) Changes to Practicum Intervention Policy ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "Provost and Vice-President (Academic) ",
                "General Counsel (Code of Student Behaviour) ",
                "GFC Campus Law Review Committee (for information) – April 28, 2016 ",
                " GFC Executive Committee (for information) – May 16, 2016 ",
                "General Faculties Council (for information) – May 30, 2016 "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": " N/A"
        }
    ],
    "url": "/static/GFC/2016-05-30/Past-Meeting-Material.pdf"
}