{
    "Committee": "GFC",
    "Date": "Monday, November 27, 2017 \n",
    "Title": "GFC General Faculties Council - 2017-11-27",
    "Location": "Council Chamber, 2-100 University Hall (UNH)",
    "Time": "2:00 PM - 4:00 PM",
    "Attendees": [
        "David Turpin, Chair",
        "Chris Andersen",
        "Stanford Blade",
        "Katy Campbell",
        "Lisa Collins",
        "Lesley Cormack",
        "Greta Cummings",
        "Kathleen DeLong",
        "Steven Dew",
        "Walter Dixon",
        "Joseph Doucet",
        "Gitta Kulczycki",
        "Dennis Kunimoto",
        "Pierre-Yves Mocquais",
        "Kerry Mummery",
        "Paul Paton",
        "Andrew Sharman",
        "Jacqui Tam",
        "Jennifer Tupper",
        "Heather Zwicker",
        "Jason Acker",
        "Jeff Birchall",
        "Cary Brown",
        "Peter Carver",
        "Ryan Dunch",
        "Duncan Elliott",
        "Nadir Erbilgin",
        "Bill Foster",
        "Kim Frail",
        "Lesley Harrington",
        "Pierre Lemelin",
        "Pamela Mayne",
        "Correia",
        "Rob McMahon",
        "Lynn McMullen",
        "Alice Nakamura",
        "Carla Peck",
        "Lisa Stein",
        "John Seubert",
        "Carrie Smith-Prei",
        "Sarah Stahlke",
        "Brent Swallow",
        "Benjamin Tucker",
        "Dilini Vethanayagam",
        "Akiko Watanabe",
        "Firouz Khodayari",
        "Shane Scott",
        "Ilya Ushakov",
        "Members:",
        "Ruben Araya",
        "Daniel Atchison",
        "Matthew Barnett",
        "Darcy Bemister",
        "Robert Bilak",
        "Daniel Bilyk",
        "Katherine Binhammer",
        "Linzy Bohn",
        "Michelle Borowitz",
        "Heather Bruce",
        "Meijun Chen",
        "Darren Choi",
        "Heidi Cossey",
        "André Costopoulos",
        "Jonah Dunch",
        "Shannon Erichsen",
        "Shawn Flynn",
        "Kyle Foster",
        "Gautam Gaur",
        "Connor Palindat",
        "Gohar Jamal",
        "Amy Li",
        "Wei Liu",
        "Sean Oliver",
        "Michael Sandare",
        "Babak Soltannia",
        "Andrews Tawiah",
        "Amanda Wakaruk",
        "Brayden Whitlock",
        "Janet Williamson",
        "Brandon Yip",
        "Katherine Aitchison",
        "Solomon Amoateng",
        "Susan Andrew",
        "Alizeh Ansari",
        "Marina Banister",
        "Allen Berger",
        "Abigail Bridarolli",
        "Sylvia Brown",
        "Erica Chang",
        "Brandon Christensen",
        "David Cooper",
        "Neal Davies",
        "Benjamin Denga",
        "Genna DiPinto",
        "Fraser Forbes",
        "Tarek El-Bialy",
        "Dean Eurich",
        "Adam Gaudry",
        "Murray Gingras",
        "Robert Haennel",
        "Daanish Hamid",
        "Delane Howie",
        "Irehobhude Iyioha",
        "Gaganpreet Jhajj",
        "Maryam Kebbe",
        "Mahmoud Kenawi",
        "Maryse Ndilu Kiese",
        "Marina Kirillovich",
        "Alex Kwan",
        "Eva Lemaire",
        "Leijun Li",
        "Monica Lillo",
        "Steven Lin",
        "Mark Loewen",
        "Habba Mahal",
        "Godfrey Man",
        "Heather McCaw",
        "Lisa McDermott",
        "Al Meldrum",
        "Kyle Monda",
        "Roger Moore",
        "Vivian Mushahwar",
        "Aleks Nakevski",
        "Anthony Nguyen",
        "Smit Patel",
        "Leonard Ratzlaff",
        "Carolyn Sale",
        "Jonathan Schaeffer",
        "Georg Schmolzer",
        "Marc Secanell",
        "Kim Solez",
        "Jorge Sousa",
        "Eleni Stroulia",
        "Bruce Sutherland",
        "James Thibaudeau",
        "Amy Tse",
        "Eddie Wang",
        "LJ Valencia",
        "Jonathan White",
        "Erin Wright",
        "Bonnie Watt",
        "Ian Winship",
        "Ziyu Yang",
        "Kue Young",
        "Meg Brolley, GFC",
        "Secretary",
        "Marion Haggarty-",
        "France, University",
        "Secretary",
        "Andrea Patrick, scribe"
    ],
    "Items": [
        {
            "Item No.": "3",
            "Agenda Title": "Renewal of the Undergraduate Nursing Curriculum, Faculty of Nursing Item Proposed by Greta Cummings, Dean, Faculty of Nursing Presenter Greta Cummings, Dean; Olive Yonge, Vice-Dean; Sandra Davidson, Associate Dean (Undergraduate Programs), Faculty of Nursing Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) To discuss the curriculum renewal project which used a Development Evaluation framework and the resulting changes to the undergraduate nursing program. The proposal for substantive changes to the Undergraduate Nursing Curriculum was considered and approved by the GFC Academic Planning Committee, with delegated authority from GFC, on October 25, 2017. Final approved documents The proposal was also considered by the GFC Academic Standards Committee with respect to admission/transfer and academic standing, and the GFC Committee on the Learning Environment with respect to promoting an optimal learning environment. Timeline/Implementation Date Fall 2018 Supplementary Notes and context The program changes will allow the Faculty of Nursing to deliver an enhanced undergraduate experience to our students.  Specific enhancements that will benefit students include: o Programs are constructed using concept-based teaching & learning approaches, learner-centered education principles, relationship-centered care and intentional clinical learning experiences (deliberate practice) o Major enhancements in amount and type of leadership courses (increasing from 1 leadership course to 4 courses), including a 9 credit senior clinical leadership practicum in the 4th year o Specific focus on developing stress management and resiliency through the integration of formal evidence-based Mindfulness- Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) components and strategies for student success o Clearer and closer connections between classroom, lab and clinical learning experiences (conceptually and timing of experiences) – based on evidence and best practices o Integration of a Community Service Learning course early in the program, and other opportunities to engage in clinical experiences earlier in the programs (starting in 1st semester) o Purposeful integration of healthcare informatics and technology that reflects current and emerging practice in healthcare o Inter-professional learning experiences embedded throughout the program in addition to a leadership course focused on the application of Inter-professional healthcare competencies o Integration of the Indigenous Health in Canada course – in http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/AcademicPlanningCommittee/APCMotionandFinalDocumentSummary/%7E/media/Governance/Documents/GO05/ACP/17-18/OC-25/Final-Motion-and-Document-Summary.pdf response to the TRC recommendations for health disciplines o Academic standing and admissions policies include a minimum pass (C+) standard for key foundational courses that will ensure students have the knowledge necessary for success in higher level clinical courses o Additional and enhanced clinical experiences (increased hours of clinical practice) as well as the use of a wider range of practice settings that more accurately reflect the current and future practice settings of Registered Nurses o Purposeful engagement with and integration of the programs of research of our faculty members ~ leveraging our strength as a top ranked research Faculty to enhance our undergraduate student experience Starting Fall of 2018, the Undergraduate Nursing Programs will offer the new courses and a new course sequence for all incoming students. Because of the significant enhancements and clear student benefits, we have created a proposed cross-walk plan for students who entered our programs in the Fall of 2017 to move into year two of the new programs in the Fall of 2018 so that they can also have the benefits of the program changes for the remainder of their undergraduate education. Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation:  GFC Committee on the Learning Environment – October 4, 2017 GFC Academic Standards Committee – October 19, 2017 GFC Academic Planning Committee – October 25, 2017 (full consultation route for the proposal can be found with APC final documents, October 25, 2017) Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents For the Public Good EXCEL as individuals, and together, sustain a culture that fosters and champions distinction and distinctiveness in teaching, learning, research, and service. Objective 14: Inspire, model and support excellence in teaching and learning. Strategy i: Foster, encourage, and support innovation and experimentation in curriculum development, teaching, and learning at the individual, unit, and institutional levels. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) Post-Secondary Learning Act “26(1) Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council is responsible for the academic affairs of the university OUTLINE OF ISSUE Action Item Agenda Title: Proposal to Waive English Language Proficiency Requirement for the Master of Financial Management (MFM) and the Master of Business Administration (MBA) programs delivered in Mandarin by the Alberta School of Business, Faculty of Graduate Studies and Research ",
            "Date": "2017-11-27",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "Greta Cummings, Dean, Faculty of Nursing ",
            "Presenter": " Greta Cummings, Dean; Olive Yonge, Vice-Dean; Sandra Davidson, Associate Dean (Undergraduate Programs), Faculty of Nursing ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) To allow the Alberta School of Business to waive the English Language Proficiency (ELP) requirement which will enable them to offer a degree where the language of instruction is in Mandarin without determining the English Language Proficiency of the applicants. The Impact of the Proposal is The benefits of Mandarin delivery of the MFM and MBA programs in China would create the following benefits to the School and the University: • Enhanced global reach and branding of the School; • Greater effectiveness in attracting quality international students; • Enhanced learning experience for students in their native language; • Internationalization of School culture and student experience; • Internationalization and expansion of alumni network; and • Increased potential for external development. Replaces/Revises (eg, policies, resolutions) n/a Timeline/Implementation Date Effective upon final approval and for publication in the 2018-2019 Calendar. If approved, the waiving of the ELP requirement would apply to applicants to the MFM (in Mandarin) and the MBA (in Mandarin) for 2018 admission. Estimated Cost and funding source n/a Next Steps (ie.: Communications Plan, Implementation plans) Supplementary Notes and context In 2014 the Alberta School of Business started offering a Master of Financial Management (MFM) degree in Shenzhen, China.  This degree is offered in partnership with Xi’an Jiaotong University (XJTU) and the Research Institute of Tsinghua University) and is taught in English.  The partnership agreement between UA and XJTU contemplated that the degree could be offered in Mandarin in the future.   Given the success of our program in Shenzhen, we want to expand the MFM degree to Shanghai and offer an MBA degree in Shenzhen.  Both of the programs will be delivered in Mandarin.  Instructors from our partner universities (XJTU and Tsinghua) will be utilized for part of the instruction with simultaneous translation being used for courses taught by our English-speaking instructors. Program standards conform with our existing degrees as well as the Government of Alberta guidelines for Off-Shore Program Delivery.  In addition, as the first and longest continuously AACSB accredited business school in Canada this program will be subject to external review as well as our internal Quality Assurance processes mandated by CAQC.   ----  The GFC Academic Standards Committee (ASC) decided not to act with its delegated authority on this item, and forwards it to General Faculties Council with a recommendation for GFC to approve the proposal. During its discussion, ASC noted that it is prudent that GFC consider the following: - the context of the proposal – the waiver is specific to graduate programs in the Alberta School of Business, and only when these programs are approved to be offered in a language other than English - proficiency in the language of instruction is required - that this proposal is for delivery in a country where the local language of instruction is not English - the proposal, which ASC supports, could set a precedent for waiving ELP when delivering programs in international contexts  Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> Those who have been informed: Those who have been consulted: • Steven Dew, Provost and Vice-President (Academic) • Heather Zwicker, Dean FGSR • Amy Dambrowitz, Assistant Dean (Administration) FGSR  • Thomas Hidson, Assistant Registrar (Records), Office of the Registrar has confirmed that the transcript can designate that the language of instruction is in Mandarin.  • Danielle Scott, Assistant Director (International Relations) UAI has reviewed the agreements between UA and our international partner institutions and provided feedback to ensure compliance with existing UA policy standards. http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nThose who are actively participating: • Michael Maier, Associate Dean, Master’s Programs, Alberta School of Business (ASOB) • Edy Wong, Associate Dean/International, ASOB • Stefanie Claro, International Partnerships Coordinator, ASOB • Chris Lynch, Senior Director, Recruitment, Admissions & Marketing, Master's Programs, ASOB • Janice Hurlburt, Governance and Policy Coordinator FGSR • Deborah Burshtyn, Vice-Dean FGSR • Tammy Hopper, Vice-Provost (Programs), Office of the Provost and Vice-President (Academic) confirmed on July 5, 2017 that the Provost has approved the offering of the program in a language other than English and that the language of instruction may be identified on the transcript. • Kate Peters, Portfolio Initiatives Manager, Office of the Provost and Vice-President (Academic) Approval Route (Governance) (including meeting dates) Alberta School of Business Graduate Students Policy Committee -- August 17, 2017 Alberta School of Business Faculty Council -- September 1, 2017 FGSR Council – September 13, 2017 GFC ASC Subcommittee on Standards – October 5, 2017 GFC Academic Standards Committee – October 19, 2017 GFC Executive Committee – November 20, 2017 General Faculties Council – November 27, 2017 Final Approver General Faculties Council Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents Institutional Strategic Plan - For the Public Good BUILD GOAL: Build a diverse, inclusive community of exceptional students, faculty and staff from Alberta, Canada, and the world. OBJECTIVE 1: Build a diverse, inclusive community of exceptional undergraduate and graduate students from Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, and the world. iii. Optimize our international recruiting strategies to attract well-qualified international students from regions of strategic importance, and enhance services and programs to ensure their academic success and integration into the activities of the university. ENGAGE GOAL: Engage communities across our campuses, city and region, province, nation and the world to create reciprocal, mutually beneficial learning experiences, research projects, partnerships, and collaborations.   OBJECTIVE 18: Seek, build, strengthen and sustain partnerships with local, national or international research agencies, governments, government ministries and agencies, universities, Indigenous communities, libraries, not-for-profits, industry, business, and community organizations. iii. Encourage municipal, provincial, national, and international collaborations, partnerships, and MOUs at institutional, faculty, department, unit, and individual levels. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The PSLA gives GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs (Section 26(1)). Further, the PSLA gives the Board of Governors authority over certain admission requirements and rules respecting enrolment (Section 60(1)(c) and (d)). The Board has delegated its authority over admissions requirements and rules respecting enrolment to GFC. GFC has thus established an Academic Standards Committee (ASC). 2. PSLA: The PSLA gives Faculty Councils power to “provide for the admission of students to the faculty” (29(1)(c)). 3. UAPPOL Admissions Policy: “Admission to the University of Alberta is based on documented academic criteria established by individual Faculties and approved by GFC. This criteria may be defined in areas such as subject requirements, minimum entrance averages, and language proficiency requirements. In addition to academic requirements for admission, GFC authorizes each Faculty to establish such other reasonable criteria for admission of applicants as the Faculty may consider appropriate to its programs of study, subject to the approval of GFC (e.g. interview, audition, portfolio, etc.) The admission requirements for any Faculty will be those approved by GFC as set forth in the current edition of the University Calendar. In addition to the admission requirements, selection criteria for quota programs, where they exist, will also be published in the current edition of the University Calendar. The responsibility for admission decisions will be vested in the Faculty Admission Committees or in the Deans of the respective Faculties, as the councils of such Faculties will determine.” 2. UAPPOL Admissions Procedure: “PROCEDURE 1. EFFECTIVE DATE OF CHANGES TO ADMISSION REGULATIONS Following approval by GFC: a. Where changes to admission regulations may disadvantage students in the current admission cycle, normally implementation will be effective after the change has been published in the University Calendar for one full year (i.e., effective the second year that the information is published in the University Calendar). For example, a change approved in May 2005 would be first published in the 2006-2007 University Calendar in March 2006. Therefore the statement cannot come into effect until September 2007 (affecting applicants who apply for the September 2007 term beginning July 2006). b. Where changes to admission regulations are deemed by the approving body to be ‘advantageous to students’, normally the date of implementation will be effective immediately or at the next available intake for the admitting Faculty.” 3. GFC Academic Standards Committee (ASC) Terms of Reference  “3 B. Admission and Transfer, Academic Standing, Marking and Grading, Term Work, Examinations, International Baccalaureate (IB), Advanced Placement (AP) i. All proposals from the Faculties or the Administration related to admission and transfer, to the academic standing of students, to institutional marking and grading policies and/or procedures and to term work policies and procedures are submitted to the Provost and Vice-\nPresident (Academic) (or delegate) who chairs the GFC Academic Standards Committee. ASC will consult as necessary with the Faculties and with other individuals and offices in its consideration of these proposals.  ii. ASC acts for GFC in approving routine and/or editorial changes to both admission/transfer policies and academic standing regulations…” 4. GFC Executive Committee “GFC has delegated to the Executive Committee the authority to decide which items are placed on a GFC agenda, and the order in which those agenda items appear on each GFC agenda. When ordering items, the GFC Executive Committee will be mindful of any matters that are of particular concern to students during March and April so that the student leaders who bring those items forward are able to address these items at GFC before their terms end. […] the role of the Executive Committee shall be to examine and debate the substance of reports or recommendations and decide if an item is ready to be forwarded to the full governing body. The Executive Committee may decide to refer a proposal back to the originating body, to refer the proposal to another body or individual for study or review, or to take other action in order to ready a proposal for consideration by General Faculties Council. “ Attachments (each to be numbered 1 - 2) 1.  Background information/briefing note (page(s) 1 - 2) 2.  Calendar change request ",
            "Approval Route": [
                "Alberta School of Business Graduate Students Policy Committee --",
                "August 17, 2017",
                "Alberta School of Business Faculty Council -- September 1, 2017",
                "FGSR Council – September 13, 2017",
                "GFC ASC Subcommittee on Standards – October 5, 2017",
                "GFC Academic Standards Committee – October 19, 2017",
                "GFC Executive Committee – November 20, 2017",
                "General Faculties Council – November 27, 2017"
            ],
            "Final Approver": " General Faculties Council"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "10",
            "Agenda Title": "General Faculties Council Standing Committee Report GFC Executive Committee",
            "Date": "2017-11-27",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "N/A",
            "Presenter": "N/A",
            "Description": "1. Since the last GFC meeting, the Executive Committee met on November 20, 2017. 2. Items Approved Under Delegated Authority Changes to Faculty Council Composition - Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry New Course Designator of KRLS, Faculty of Kinesiology, Sport, and Recreation Agenda for the November 27, 2017 Meeting of General Faculties Council 3. Items Recommended to GFC Proposal to Waive English Language Proficiency Requirement for the Master of Financial Management (MFM) and the Master of Business Administration (MBA) programs delivered in Mandarin by the Alberta School of Business, Faculty of Graduate Studies and Research 4. Items that the Committee Discussed or Advised on  General Appeals Committee (GAC) Annual Report to General Faculties Council (July 1, 2016 - June 30, 2017) Annual Report of the Residence Discipline Statistics: 2016-2017 Student Conduct and Accountability Annual Statistical Report Annual Report of the Appeals and Compliance Officer (2016-2017) Joint Board / GFC / Senate Summit Early Consultation: Experiential Learning Terms of reference and records of meetings for this committee can be found at: http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/ExecutiveCommittee.aspx ",
            "Approval Route": "N/A",
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "11",
            "Agenda Title": "General Faculties Council Standing Committee Report GFC Academic Planning Committee",
            "Date": "2017-11-27",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "N/A",
            "Presenter": "N/A",
            "Description": "1. Since last reporting to GFC, the Academic Planning Committee met on November 8, and November 29, 2017, and is also reporting on activities of the meeting of October 25, 2017 2. Items Approved under Delegated Authority on October 25, 2017 Substantive revisions to the curriculum of the Master of Public Health (MPH) in the School of Public Health, Faculty of Graduate Studies & Research Substantive Changes to the Undergraduate Nursing Curriculum, Faculty of Nursing Items Approved under Delegated Authority on November 8, 2017 Proposal from the Faculty of Graduate Studies & Research for a New course-based MA in History of Art, Design and Visual Cultural (HADVC), Department of Art and Design Proposal from the Faculty of Graduate Studies & Research for a new combined MSc in Physical Therapy/PhD in Rehabilitation Science (MScPT/PhD) program, Department of Physical Therapy and the Faculty of Rehabilitation Medicine 3. Items the Committee Discussed or Advised On Update on the Budget – Planning Framework 2016-17 Mandatory Non-Instructional Fees (MNIFs) Annual Report GFC Academic Planning Committee Terms of Reference Terms of reference and records of meeting for this committee can be found at: http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/AcademicPlanningCommittee.aspx ",
            "Approval Route": "N/A",
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "12",
            "Agenda Title": "General Faculties Council Standing Committee Report GFC Academic Standards Committee",
            "Date": "2017-11-27",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "N/A",
            "Presenter": "N/A",
            "Description": "1. Since the last GFC meeting, the GFC Academic Standards Committee met on November 16, 2017. 2. Items Approved under Delegated Authority from GFC Office of the Registrar: Approval of Transfer Credits for November 2017 Faculty of Graduate Studies and Research: Proposed Changes to Existing Application Deadlines for Medical Sciences MSc and PhD programs offered through the Department of Dentistry Faculty of Graduate Studies and Research: Proposed Changes to Existing Application Deadlines, Physical Education and Recreation Graduate Programs Faculty of Engineering: Proposed Changes to Existing Regulations for Missed Term and Final Exams Faculty of Law: Proposed Changes to Existing Application Procedures Proposed Changes to Existing Admission and Readmission Regulations, MD Program, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry Proposed changes to Admission Requirements, BSc Honors in Nutrition, Faculty of Agricultural, Life and Environmental Sciences Proposed Changes to existing Entrance Requirements for the Master’s and PhD programs in Physical Education, Sport and Recreation, as proposed by the Faculty of Graduate Studies and Research Proposed Changes to existing Entrance Requirements for Medical Sciences PhD programs in Periodontology and in Orthodontics, and Medical Sciences MSc program in Orthodontics, offered through the Department of Dentistry, Faculty of Graduate Studies and Research Faculté Saint-Jean: Proposed changes to existing Academic Standing Requirement (probation) Proposed Changes to Admission and Academic Regulations, BSc in Radiation Therapy, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry 3. Items Discussed External Programs for Review and Programs in Progress on Campus: Standing Item Terms of reference and records of meeting for this committee can be found at: http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GeneralFacultiesCouncil/AcademicStandardsCommittee.aspx ",
            "Approval Route": "N/A",
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "13",
            "Agenda Title": "General Appeals Committee (GAC) Annual Report to General Faculties Council (July 1, 2016 – June 30, 2017) ",
            "Date": "2017-11-27",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "David Johnson, Special Advisor, Faculty and Staff Relations ",
            "Presenter": " David Johnson, Special Advisor, Faculty and Staff Relations ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) To comply with GFC-legislated reporting requirements Timeline/Implementation Date N/A Supplementary Notes and context N/A Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> Those who have been informed: • GFC Executive Committee – November 20, 2017 • General Faculties Council  - November 27, 2017 Those who have been consulted: • N/A Those who are actively participating: • N/A Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents Institutional Strategic Plan - For the Public Good - Goal of Excel: “Excel as individuals, and together, sustain a culture that fosters and champions distinction and distinctiveness in teaching, learning, research, and service.” Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) gives GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs (Section 26(1). 2. GFC Policy Manual: GFC requests that the GAC report annually to Council (Section 56.2 (General Appeals Committee) of the GFC Policy Manual). The GAC is a committee established under Section 15 of the Board/AASUA Agreement (Faculty) and, until 1977, was a GFC committee. Currently, it is one of several non-GFC committees requested to provide an annual report to GFC. GFC requests that the report include a statistical summary of cases and their dispositions and protect the confidentiality of individual cases. 3. GFC Terms of Reference (GFC Procedures (GFC Agendas) (Reports)):  “Reports not requiring action by GFC will be discussed by the Executive Committee (with committee chairs in attendance) and placed on the GFC agenda for information. If a GFC member has a question about a report, or feels that the report should be discussed by http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nGFC, the GFC member should notify the Secretary to GFC, in writing, two business days or more before GFC meets so that the committee chair can be invited to attend. Such reports will be discussed as the last of the standing items.” (Section 4.a.) Attachments 1. Attachment 1 (pages 1 – 4): General Appeals Committee (GAC) Annual Report to General Faculties Council (July 1, 2016 – June 30, 2017) ",
            "Approval Route": "N/A",
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "15B",
            "Agenda Title": "Annual Report of the Residence Discipline Statistics: 2016-2017 ",
            "Date": "2017-11-27",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "Janice Johnson, Assistant Dean of Students, Residences ",
            "Presenter": " Trent Nabe, Supervisor, Residence Life - East Campus ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Residence Services The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) To report on the discipline statistics from the U of A residences for the 2016-2017 academic year. Timeline/Implementation Date May 1, 2016 to August 31, 2017 Supplementary Notes and context N/A Engagement and Routing GFC CLRC - September 28, 2017 Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> Those who have been informed: • Andre Costopoulos, Vice-Provost, Dean of Students • Resident students • Residence Services • Vice President, Facilities and Operations • GFC CLRC (October 26, 2017) • GFC Executive Committee (November 20, 2017) • GFC (November 27, 2017) • UAPS Those who have been consulted: • Sarah Wolgemuth, Assistant Dean, Student Life • Residence Services • Ancillary Services • Kathrine Huising, Associate Vice President, Ancillary Services Those who are actively participating: • Residence Life Staff and Student Staff • Janice Johnson, Assistant Dean of Student, Residences • Laura Huxley, Acting Manager Residence Life & Education • Trent Nabe, Supervisor, Residence Life - East Campus • Salwa Kramps, Residence Life Administrative Assistant • GFC CLRC (October 26, 2017) • GFC Executive Committee (November 21, 2017) Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents Institutional Strategic Plan - For the Public Good, Institutional Values Strategy for Residences 2015-2040 Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The PSLA give GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs and over student affairs, including authority concerning student discipline. (Sections 26(1) and 31) In addition, Section 26(1)(o) states GFC “has the authority to make recommendations to the board with respect to […] the regulation of residences and dining halls[.][…]”  http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nFurther, PSLA Section 31(1) – Student Affairs states “The general faculties council has general supervision of student affairs at a university and in particular, but without restricting the generality, the general faculties council may […] (b) delegate its power to discipline students in any particular case or generally to any person or body of persons, subject to any conditions with respect to the exercise of any delegated power that it considers proper [.] […]”  2. GFC Campus Law Review Committee Terms of Reference: “Residence Discipline Reports: To receive annually reports from the student residence associations on the number and disposition of discipline cases in the residences, and forward the reports to the GFC Executive Committee. (EXEC 14 JUL 1997) Any student residence with a code or similar set of regulations is required to report annually on the operation of that code to General Faculties Council through its Campus Law Review Committee and its Executive Committee. (GFC 22 SEP 1997)” Attachments:  1.  Annual Report of the Residence Discipline Statistics  ",
            "Approval Route": "N/A",
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "15C",
            "Agenda Title": "Student Conduct and Accountability Annual Statistical Report ",
            "Date": "2017-11-27",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "Deborah Eerkes, Director, SCA ",
            "Presenter": " André Costopoulos, Dean of Students ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) To provide the GFC Campus Law Review Committee (CLRC) with the annual statistics of SCA for the 2016-17 academic year. Timeline/Implementation Date N/A Supplementary Notes and context This annual report will be provided to General Faculties Council at the meeting of November 27, 2017 as an information item. Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) Those who have been informed: • Michael Peterson, Appeals and Compliance Officer • GFC CLRC (October 26, 2017) • GFC Executive Committee (November 20, 2017) • GFC (November 27, 2017) Those who have been consulted: •  Those who are actively participating: • GFC CLRC (October 26, 2017) Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents Institutional Strategic Plan - For the Public Good, Comprehensive Institutional Plan Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) gives GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs (Section 26(1)) and over academic affairs (Section 31), including authority concerning student discipline.  2. GFC Campus Law Review Committee (CLRC) Terms of Reference:  Section 3 – Mandate of the Committee (A and B) states that GFC CLRC is “[t]o review, from time to time, the Code of Student Behaviour and student discipline procedures.”, and “[t]o review, from time to time, the Code of Applicant Behaviour.” 4. GFC Terms of Reference (GFC Procedures/GFC Agendas/ Reports):  “Reports not requiring action by GFC will be discussed by the Executive Committee (with committee chairs in attendance[, as appropriate,]) and placed on the GFC agenda for information. If a GFC member has a question about a report, or feels that the report should be discussed by GFC, the GFC member should notify the Secretary to GFC, in writing, two business days or more before GFC meets so that the committee chair can be invited to attend. Such reports will be discussed as the last of the standing items.” (Section 4.a.) Annual reports are made available to GFC online (GFC, February 24, 2003, Minute 14). Attachments  1.  Student Conduct and Accountability Statistical Report ",
            "Approval Route": "N/A",
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "15D",
            "Agenda Title": "Annual Report of the Appeals and Compliance Officer (2016-2017) ",
            "Date": "2017-11-27",
            "Committee": "GFC",
            "Proposed By": "Michael Peterson, Appeals and Compliance Officer, University Governance ",
            "Presenter": " Michael Peterson, Appeals and Compliance Officer, University Governance ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Provost and Vice-President (Academic) The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) To provide Committee members with the annual report of statistical information on discipline cases, as required by GFC policy. Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) • GFC Campus Law Review Committee, October 26, 2017 (for discussion);  • GFC Executive Committee, November 20, 2017 (for discussion); • General Faculties Council, November 27, 2017 (for information); • Board Learning and Discovery Committee, December 1, 2017 (for discussion) Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents For the Public Good GOAL:  Sustain our people, our work, and the environment by attracting and stewarding the resources we need to deliver excellence to the benefit of all. OBJECTIVE 21: Encourage continuous improvement in administrative, governance, planning, and stewardship systems, procedures, and policies that enable students, faculty, staff, and the institution as a whole to achieve shared strategic goals.  Strategy i: Encourage transparency and improve communication across the university through clear consultation and decision-making processes, substantive and timely communication of information, and access to shared, reliable institutional data. Strategy ii: Ensure that individual and institutional annual review processes align with and support key institutional strategic goals. Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA):  The Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) gives GFC responsibility, subject to the authority of the Board of Governors, over academic affairs (Section 26(1)) and over student affairs (Section 31), including authority concerning student discipline. 2. GFC CLRC Terms of Reference  (5. Reporting Requirements):  “Discipline Cases: University Governance has been asked by the GFC Executive to attempt to have all appeal Boards (UAB, GFC AAC and GFC PRB) report to GFC at the same meeting, through the GFC Campus Law Review Committee (CLRC). The Appeals Coordinator on behalf of the Campus Law Review Committee will submit annually to GFC in the fall, statistical information on discipline cases dealt with by Faculties, the Discipline Officer, the Registrar, Unit Directors, the University Appeal Board and the GFC Practice Review Board. The discipline reports will include the year of the student, the offence with which they were charged and the outcome, but not any personally identifying information. When reporting statistics for applicants, the offence with which the applicant is charged and the outcome, but not any personally identifying information, will be provided. As far as is practical, comparative information from the most recent reporting period will be included.” 3.    GFC Executive Terms of Reference  (3. Mandate of the Committee): “To act as the executive body of General Faculties Council and, in general, carry out the functions delegated to it by General Faculties Council.” “2.  Routine Matters Matters which are routine in carrying out the policies approved by General Faculties Council are delegated to the Executive Committee.” 4.    GFC Terms of Reference        (4. GFC Procedures/GFC Agendas/ a. Reports): “Reports not requiring action by GFC will be discussed by the Executive Committee (with committee chairs in attendance) and placed on the GFC agenda for information. If a GFC member has a question about a report, or feels that the report should be discussed by GFC, the GFC member should notify the Secretary to GFC, in writing, two business days or more before GFC meets so that the committee chair can be invited to attend. Such reports will be discussed as the last of the standing items.” Annual reports are made available to GFC online (GFC, February 24, 2003, Minute 14). 5.  Board Learning and Discovery Committee (BLDC) Terms of   Reference/Mandate of the Committee        (Section 3): “Except as provided in paragraph 4 hereof and in the Board’s General Committee Terms of Reference, the Committee shall, in accordance with the Committee’s responsibilities with powers granted under the Post-\nSecondary Learning Act, monitor, evaluate, advise and make decisions on behalf of the Board with respect to matters concerning the teaching and research affairs of the University, including proposals coming from the administration and from General Faculties Council (the “GFC”), and shall consider future educational expectations and challenges to be faced by the University. The Committee shall also include any other matter delegated to the Committee by the Board.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing the Committee shall: […]  e. review and approve the Code of Student Behaviour, the Code of Applicant Behaviour and the Practicum Intervention Policy;  […] g. undertake studies and review academic matters that pertain to the quality of the educational experience at the University;  h. monitor educational and research trends, community expectations and demands;  […]  j. ensure that the academic teaching and research activities at the University are administered and undertaken in a manner consistent with the vision and mission of the University;  k. consider future educational expectations and challenges to be faced by the University[.] […]” Attachments 1. Annual Report of the Appeals and Compliance Officer (2016-2017) (4 pages) 2. Index of Attachments (10 pages) ",
            "Approval Route": "N/A",
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        }
    ],
    "PDF url": "GFC_Monday, November 27, 2017 \n_Material.pdf"
}