{
    "Committee": "UASC",
    "Date": "2018-01-09",
    "Title": "UASC General Faculties Council - 2018-01-09",
    "Location": "2-15 South Academic Building (SAB)",
    "Time": "2:00 PM - 4:00 PM",
    "Attendees": [
        "Amy Tse, Chair",
        "Marc de Montigny Paul Myers",
        "Isha Godara Petr Nikrityuk",
        "Rachel Goud",
        "Sathya Rao",
        "Clive Hickson  Andrea Patrick, Coordinator, GFC UASC",
        "Fiona Halbert"
    ],
    "Items": [
        {
            "Item No.": "4",
            "Agenda Title": "New Endowed Undergraduate Awards and Bursaries for Approval Dentistry for Life Bursary Dentistry for Life Bursary in Dental Hygiene Edouard Boulay Memorial Bursary Edith and Gunnar Poulsen Bursary Patricia Ann and Ernest Eric Binnie Memorial Bursary David Robert Cornish Bursary in Medicine Louise (Pegg) Schulz Bursary Medicine Class of 1992 Mental Health and Wellness Awareness Award Edmonton Film Society Scholarship Dr Marnie Hinton Award Dr Ross and Mrs Hedy Denham Scholarship in Business Faculty of Science Undergraduate Scholarship Faculty of Science Entrance Scholarship Lakshmi Memorial Undergraduate Scholarship Urban and Regional Information Systems Association (URISA) Alberta Chapter Scholarship Genetics Student Award Judy Morris Memorial Scholarship in Rural Nursing ",
            "Motion": " THAT the GFC Undergraduate Awards and Scholarship Committee approve, under delegated authority from General Faculties Council, proposed new Undergraduate Awards and Bursaries, as submitted by Student Financial Support and as set forth in Attachment 1, to be effective immediately. ",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2018-01-09",
            "Committee": "UASC",
            "Proposed By": "Student Financial Support ",
            "Presenter": " Fiona Halbert, Assistant Registrar Student Financial Support ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Office of the Registrar The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) To approve new and endowed undergraduate awards and bursaries. The Impact of the Proposal is  Replaces/Revises (eg, policies, resolutions) Timeline/Implementation Date Upon final approval. Estimated Cost and funding source Next Steps (ie.: Communications Plan, Implementation plans) Public posting of Award or Bursary on U of A website, offer of Award or Bursary to students as soon as funds are available Supplementary Notes and context The GFC Executive Committee requested that the GFC UASC provide for information a copy of the undergraduate awards approved by GFC UASC (EXEC May 13, 2002, Minute 97). To establish a named endowment fund, the minimum donation required currently is $25,000. Annual earnings/spending allocation for endowed awards and bursaries is liable to fluctuations based on the University investment policies. Annual award and bursary values are set based on  agreed upon guidelines with the Office of Advancement, which will be responsive to the fluctuations in the annual spending allocation.  Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> Those who have been informed: • Donors are informed of U of A policy for Award establishment • Office of Advancement is informed of new Awards in process Those who have been consulted: • Donors, the Office of the Registrar, Office of Advancement have been consulted in the establishment of new Award conditions  • Faculty or Departments have been consulted with new Award conditions, setup and awarding process of new and amended Awards Those who are actively participating: • Undergraduate students, Graduate students, Faculty, Departments, Office of Advancement Approval Route (Governance) (including meeting dates) GFC Undergraduate Awards and Scholarship Committee, (January 9, 2018) (for final approval) Final Approver GFC Undergraduate Awards and Scholarship Committee Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents Institutional Strategic Plan – For the Public Good To begin, we will attract outstanding students… 1. OBJECTIVE: Build a diverse, inclusive community of exceptional undergraduate and graduate students from Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, and the world.  i. Strategy: Develop and implement an undergraduate and graduate recruitment strategy to attract top students from across the diverse communities in Alberta and Canada, leveraging our strengths as a comprehensive research-intensive, multi-campus university with options for francophone and rural liberal arts education. ii. Strategy: Develop and implement an undergraduate and graduate recruitment and retention strategy to attract top Indigenous students. iii. Strategy: Optimize our international recruiting strategies to attract well-qualified international students from regions of strategic importance, and enhance services and programs to ensure their academic success and integration into the activities of the university. iv. Strategy: Ensure that qualified undergraduate and graduate students can attend the university through the provision of robust student financial support.  Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The PSLA (Section 26(1)(m)) indicates that General Faculties Council (GFC) has the authority to “make rules and regulations respecting academic awards.” 2. GFC Undergraduate Awards and Scholarship Committee (UASC) Terms of Reference (3. Mandate):  “GFC UASC has delegated authority from GFC to: 1. approve new undergraduate awards; 2. approve changes to any undergraduate student award already approved by GFC UASC[.] […]” http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nAttachments: 1.  Attachment 1: Proposed New Endowed Undergraduate Student Awards and Bursaries for Approval ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "<For further information see ",
                "the link posted on the ",
                "Governance Toolkit section ",
                "Student Participation Protocol> ",
                "Those who have been informed: ",
                "• Donors are informed of U of A policy for Award establishment ",
                "• Office of Advancement is informed of new Awards in process ",
                "Those who have been consulted: ",
                "• Donors, the Office of the Registrar, Office of Advancement have ",
                "been consulted in the establishment of new Award conditions ",
                "• Faculty or Departments have been consulted with new Award ",
                "conditions, setup and awarding process of new and amended ",
                "Awards ",
                "Those who are actively participating: ",
                "• Undergraduate students, Graduate students, Faculty, ",
                "Departments, Office of Advancement "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "GFC Undergraduate Awards and Scholarship Committee, (January 9,",
                "2018) (for final approval)"
            ],
            "Final Approver": " GFC Undergraduate Awards and Scholarship Committee"
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "5",
            "Agenda Title": "Amendments to Existing Undergraduate Awards and Bursaries for Approval APEGA Rising Star Scholarship in Geology or Geophysics Neil Siemens Science Scholarship Patricia Siemens Science Scholarship ",
            "Motion": " THAT the GFC Undergraduate Awards and Scholarship Committee approve, under delegated authority from General Faculties Council, proposed amendments to existing Undergraduate Awards and Bursaries, as submitted by Student Financial Support and as set forth in Attachment 1, to be effective immediately. ",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2018-01-09",
            "Committee": "UASC",
            "Proposed By": "Student Financial Support ",
            "Presenter": " Fiona Halbert, Assistant Registrar Student Financial Support ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility Office of the Registrar The Purpose of the Proposal is (please be specific) To approve new and amended undergraduate awards and bursaries, and graduate bursaries. The Impact of the Proposal is  Replaces/Revises (eg, policies, resolutions) Timeline/Implementation Date Upon final approval. Estimated Cost and funding source Next Steps (ie.: Communications Plan, Implementation plans) Public posting of Award or Bursary on U of A website, offer of Award or Bursary to students as soon as funds are available. Supplementary Notes and context The GFC Executive Committee requested that the GFC UASC provide for information a copy of the undergraduate awards approved by GFC UASC (EXEC May 13, 2002, Minute 97). Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) <For further information see the link posted on the Governance Toolkit section Student Participation Protocol> Those who have been informed: • Donors are informed of U of A policy for Award establishment • Office of Advancement is informed of new Awards in process Those who have been consulted: • Donors, the Office of the Registrar, Office of Advancement have been consulted in the establishment of new Award conditions  • Faculty or Departments have been consulted with new and amended Award conditions, setup and awarding process of new and amended Awards Those who are actively participating: • Undergraduate students, Graduate students, Faculty, Departments, Office of Advancement Approval Route (Governance) (including meeting dates) GFC Undergraduate Awards and Scholarship Committee, (January 9, 2018) (for final approval) http://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\nhttp://www.governance.ualberta.ca/GovernanceToolkit/Toolkit.aspx\n Final Approver GFC Undergraduate Awards and Scholarship Committee Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents Institutional Strategic Plan – For the Public Good To begin, we will attract outstanding students… 1. OBJECTIVE: Build a diverse, inclusive community of exceptional undergraduate and graduate students from Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, and the world.  i. Strategy: Develop and implement an undergraduate and graduate recruitment strategy to attract top students from across the diverse communities in Alberta and Canada, leveraging our strengths as a comprehensive research-intensive, multi-campus university with options for francophone and rural liberal arts education. ii. Strategy: Develop and implement an undergraduate and graduate recruitment and retention strategy to attract top Indigenous students. iii. Strategy: Optimize our international recruiting strategies to attract well-qualified international students from regions of strategic importance, and enhance services and programs to ensure their academic success and integration into the activities of the university. iv. Strategy: Ensure that qualified undergraduate and graduate students can attend the university through the provision of robust student financial support.  Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The PSLA (Section 26(1)(m)) indicates that General Faculties Council (GFC) has the authority to “make rules and regulations respecting academic awards.” 2. GFC Undergraduate Awards and Scholarship Committee (UASC) Terms of Reference (3. Mandate):  “GFC UASC has delegated authority from GFC to: 1. approve new undergraduate awards; 2. approve changes to any undergraduate student award already approved by GFC UASC[.] […]” Attachments: 1.  Attachment 1: Proposed Amended Undergraduate Student Awards and Bursaries for Approval ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) ",
                "<For further information see ",
                "the link posted on the ",
                "Governance Toolkit section ",
                "Student Participation Protocol> ",
                "Those who have been informed: ",
                "• Donors are informed of U of A policy for Award establishment ",
                "• Office of Advancement is informed of new Awards in process ",
                "Those who have been consulted: ",
                "• Donors, the Office of the Registrar, Office of Advancement have ",
                "been consulted in the establishment of new Award conditions ",
                "• Faculty or Departments have been consulted with new and ",
                "amended Award conditions, setup and awarding process of new ",
                "and amended Awards ",
                "Those who are actively participating: ",
                "• Undergraduate students, Graduate students, Faculty, ",
                "Departments, Office of Advancement "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "GFC Undergraduate Awards and Scholarship Committee, (January 9,",
                "2018) (for final approval)",
                " Final Approver GFC Undergraduate Awards and Scholarship Committee",
                "Alignment/Compliance",
                "Alignment with Guiding",
                "Documents",
                "Institutional Strategic Plan – For the Public Good",
                "To begin, we will attract outstanding students…",
                "1. OBJECTIVE: Build a diverse, inclusive community of exceptional",
                "undergraduate and graduate students from Edmonton, Alberta, Canada,",
                "and the world.",
                "i. Strategy: Develop and implement an undergraduate and graduate",
                "recruitment strategy to attract top students from across the diverse",
                "communities in Alberta and Canada, leveraging our strengths as a",
                "comprehensive research-intensive, multi-campus university with options",
                "for francophone and rural liberal arts education.",
                "ii. Strategy: Develop and implement an undergraduate and graduate",
                "recruitment and retention strategy to attract top Indigenous students.",
                "iii. Strategy: Optimize our international recruiting strategies to attract",
                "well-qualified international students from regions of strategic importance,",
                "and enhance services and programs to ensure their academic success",
                "and integration into the activities of the university.",
                "iv. Strategy: Ensure that qualified undergraduate and graduate students",
                "can attend the university through the provision of robust student financial",
                "support.",
                "Compliance with Legislation,",
                "Policy and/or Procedure",
                "Relevant to the Proposal",
                "(please quote legislation and",
                "include identifying section",
                "numbers)",
                "1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA): The PSLA (Section",
                "26(1)(m)) indicates that General Faculties Council (GFC) has the",
                "authority to “make rules and regulations respecting academic",
                "awards.”",
                "2. GFC Undergraduate Awards and Scholarship Committee (UASC)",
                "Terms of Reference (3. Mandate):  “GFC UASC has delegated",
                "authority from GFC to:",
                "1. approve new undergraduate awards;",
                "2. approve changes to any undergraduate student award already",
                "approved by GFC UASC[.] […]”",
                "Attachments:",
                "1.  Attachment 1: Proposed Amended Undergraduate Student Awards and Bursaries for Approval"
            ],
            "Final Approver": ""
        },
        {
            "Item No.": "6",
            "Agenda Title": "Review of the Awards and Bursaries for Students Policy and Related Procedures in UAPPOL ",
            "Motion": "N/A",
            "Action Requested": "N/A",
            "Date": "2018-01-09",
            "Committee": "UASC",
            "Proposed By": "Amy Tse, Chair, GFC UASC ",
            "Presenter": " Amy Tse, Chair, GFC UASC ",
            "Description": "Details Responsibility General Faculties Council The Purpose of the item is (please be specific) To provide committee members with an overview of the Awards and Bursaries for Students Policy and related procedures in UAPPOL in an effort to identify institutional policy and procedures related to the committee’s mandate.  This will prepare members for the upcoming discussions on amendments to committee terms of reference, as per the GFC ad hoc Committee on Academic Governance Including Delegated Authority. Timeline/Implementation Date GFC has given its standing committees a deadline of April 2019 to recommend revisions to committee terms of reference. Supplementary Notes and context The GFC ad hoc Committee on Academic Governance Including Delegated Authority recommended that UASC work with relevant stakeholders to propose revisions to the committee’s terms of reference to provide a more strategic and comprehensive mandate and role. Engagement and Routing (Include meeting dates) Participation: (parties who have seen the proposal and in what capacity) Those who are actively participating: • GFC Undergraduate Awards and Scholarship Committee (UASC) Alignment/Compliance Alignment with Guiding Documents For the Public Good Objective 21 Encourage continuous improvement in administrative, governance, planning and stewardship systems, procedures, and policies that enable students, faculty, staff, and the institutions as a whole to achieve shared strategic goals. Objective 1 – Strategy 4 Ensure that qualified undergraduate and graduate students can attend the university through the provision of robust student financial support.  Report of the ad hoc Committee on Academic Governance Including Delegated Authority (April 21, 2017) Orientation and Education “The ad hoc committee recommends that orientation and orientation materials should be provided in a number of modes and formats, including stand-alone orientation workshops, briefings at meetings, and through widely available written and online materials.  The following recommendations focus on improving orientation to prepare GFC and committee members to be informed and active participants in academic governance. Recommendation: THAT a variety of orientation sessions be offered including a general orientation to governance (Governance 101), followed by orientations more specific to GFC and GFC standing committees, and follow up sessions through the year Undergraduate Awards and Scholarship Committee (UASC) “UASC’s role in policy development should be strengthened with an explicit reference to how awards policy can assist in the implementation of the Institutional Strategic Plan, For the Public Good.” Recommendation: THAT the Undergraduate Awards and Scholarship Committee work with relevant stakeholders to propose revisions to the committee’s terms of reference to provide a more strategic and comprehensive mandate and role Compliance with Legislation, Policy and/or Procedure Relevant to the Proposal (please quote legislation and include identifying section numbers) 1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) “Powers of general faculties council” 26(1)Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council is responsible for the academic affairs of the university” 2.  GFC UASC Terms of Reference “3. Mandate of the Committee GFC UASC has delegated authority from GFC to: 1. approve new undergraduate awards; 2. approve changes to any undergraduate student award already approved by GFC UASC; 3. approve the minimum value of a major award for undergraduate students, and to review that value regularly; 4. approve the minimum value of an undergraduate award administered by the Student Awards Office, and to review that value regularly; (EXEC 05 MAY 2008) 5. approve the definition of a full normal course load for purposes of awards where more than one Faculty is involved; 6. recommend to the GFC Executive Committee on any new policy or revisions to existing policy governing awards for undergraduate students; 7. consider any proposal emanating from any member of the University community for changes to GFC undergraduate student awards policy, and where deemed appropriate by GFC UASC, recommend changes to the GFC Executive Committee.” Attachments: 1. Awards and Bursaries for Students Policy 2. Awards for Undergraduate Students Procedure 3. Bursaries for Students Procedure 4. Creation of New Awards and Bursaries for Undergraduate Students Procedure 5. University Medal Requirements Procedure ",
            "Participation": [
                " ",
                "(parties who have seen the ",
                "proposal and in what capacity) Those who are actively participating: ",
                "• GFC Undergraduate Awards and Scholarship Committee (UASC) ",
                "Alignment/Compliance ",
                "Alignment with Guiding ",
                "Documents ",
                "For the Public Good ",
                "Objective 21 ",
                "Encourage continuous improvement in administrative, governance, ",
                "planning and stewardship systems, procedures, and policies that ",
                "enable students, faculty, staff, and the institutions as a whole to ",
                "achieve shared strategic goals. ",
                "Objective 1 – Strategy 4 ",
                "Ensure that qualified undergraduate and graduate students can ",
                "attend the university through the provision of robust student financial ",
                "support. ",
                " Report of the ad hoc Committee on Academic Governance ",
                "Including Delegated Authority (April 21, 2017) ",
                "Orientation and Education ",
                "“The ad hoc committee recommends that orientation and orientation ",
                "materials should be provided in a number of modes and formats, ",
                "including stand-alone orientation workshops, briefings at meetings, ",
                "and through widely available written and online materials. ",
                "The following recommendations focus on improving orientation to ",
                "prepare GFC and committee members to be informed and active ",
                "participants in academic governance. ",
                "Recommendation: THAT a variety of orientation sessions be offered ",
                "including a general orientation to governance (Governance 101), ",
                "followed by orientations more specific to GFC and GFC standing ",
                "committees, and follow up sessions through the year ",
                "Undergraduate Awards and Scholarship Committee (UASC) ",
                "“UASC’s role in policy development should be strengthened with an ",
                "explicit reference to how awards policy can assist in the ",
                "implementation of the Institutional Strategic Plan, For the Public ",
                "Good.” ",
                "Recommendation: THAT the Undergraduate Awards and ",
                "Scholarship Committee work with relevant stakeholders to propose ",
                "revisions to the committee’s terms of reference to provide a more ",
                "strategic and comprehensive mandate and role ",
                "Compliance with Legislation, ",
                "Policy and/or Procedure ",
                "Relevant to the Proposal ",
                "(please quote legislation and ",
                "include identifying section ",
                "numbers) ",
                "1. Post-Secondary Learning Act (PSLA) ",
                "“Powers of general faculties council” ",
                "26(1)Subject to the authority of the board, a general faculties council is ",
                "responsible for the academic affairs of the university” ",
                "2.  GFC UASC Terms of Reference ",
                "“3. Mandate of the Committee ",
                "GFC UASC has delegated authority from GFC to: ",
                "1. approve new undergraduate awards; ",
                "2. approve changes to any undergraduate student award already ",
                "approved by GFC UASC; ",
                "3. approve the minimum value of a major award for undergraduate ",
                "students, and to review that value regularly; ",
                "4. approve the minimum value of an undergraduate award ",
                "administered by the Student Awards Office, and to review that value ",
                "regularly; (EXEC 05 MAY 2008) ",
                "5. approve the definition of a full normal course load for purposes of ",
                "awards where more than one Faculty is involved; ",
                "6. recommend to the GFC Executive Committee on any new policy or ",
                "revisions to existing policy governing awards for undergraduate ",
                "students; ",
                "7. consider any proposal emanating from any member of the University ",
                "community for changes to GFC undergraduate student awards policy, ",
                "and where deemed appropriate by GFC UASC, recommend changes ",
                "to the GFC Executive Committee.” ",
                "Attachments: ",
                "1. Awards and Bursaries for Students Policy ",
                "2. Awards for Undergraduate Students Procedure ",
                "3. Bursaries for Students Procedure ",
                "4. Creation of New Awards and Bursaries for Undergraduate Students Procedure ",
                "5. University Medal Requirements Procedure "
            ],
            "Approval Route": [
                "N/A"
            ],
            "Final Approver": "N/A"
        }
    ],
    "url": "/static/UASC/2018-01-09/Past-Meeting-Material.pdf"
}
